
<h2 id="CH1">   CHAPTER I </h2>
<div class="chtitle">  UKRIDGE'S DOG COLLEGE </div>
<p>“Laddie,” said Stanley Featherstonehaugh
Ukridge, that much-enduring man, helping
himself to my tobacco and slipping the pouch
absently into his pocket, “listen to me, you
son of Belial.”</p>
<p>“What?” I said, retrieving the pouch.</p>
<p>“Do you want to make an enormous fortune?”</p>
<p>“I do.”</p>
<p>“Then write my biography. Bung it down on paper,
and we’ll split the proceeds. I’ve been making a pretty
close study of your stuff lately, old horse, and it’s all
wrong. The trouble with you is that you don’t plumb
the well-springs of human nature and all that. You just
think up some rotten yarn about some-dam-thing-or-other
and shove it down. Now, if you tackled my life,
you’d have something worth writing about. Pots of
money in it, my boy—English serial rights and American
serial rights and book rights, and dramatic rights and
movie rights—well, you can take it from me that, at a
conservative estimate, we should clean up at least fifty
thousand pounds apiece.”</p>
<p>“As much as that?”</p>
<p>“Fully that. And listen, laddie, I’ll tell you what.
You’re a good chap and we’ve been pals for years, so I’ll
let you have my share of the English serial rights for a
hundred pounds down.”</p>
<p>“What makes you think I’ve got a hundred pounds?”</p>
<p>“Well, then, I’ll make it my share of the English and
American serial rights for fifty.”</p>
<p>“Your collar’s come off its stud.”</p>
<p>“How about my complete share of the whole dashed
outfit for twenty-five?”</p>
<p>“Not for me, thanks.”</p>
<p>“Then I’ll tell you what, old horse,” said Ukridge,
inspired. “Just lend me half a crown to be going on
with.”</p>
<div class="centered">  *      
*      *      
*      * </div>
<p>If the leading incidents of S. F. Ukridge’s disreputable
career are to be given to the public—and not, as some might
suggest, decently hushed up—I suppose I am the man to
write them. Ukridge and I have been intimate since the
days of school. Together we sported on the green, and
when he was expelled no one missed him more than I. An
unfortunate business, this expulsion. Ukridge’s generous
spirit, ever ill-attuned to school rules, caused him eventually
to break the solemnest of them all by sneaking out
at night to try his skill at the coco-nut-shies of the local
village fair; and his foresight in putting on scarlet
whiskers and a false nose for the expedition was completely
neutralised by the fact that he absent-mindedly
wore his school cap throughout the entire proceedings.
He left the next morning, regretted by all.</p>
<p>After this there was a hiatus of some years in our friendship.
I was at Cambridge, absorbing culture, and
Ukridge, as far as I could gather from his rare letters and
the reports of mutual acquaintances, flitting about the
world like a snipe. Somebody met him in New York,
just off a cattle-ship. Somebody else saw him in Buenos
Ayres. Somebody, again, spoke sadly of having been
pounced on by him at Monte Carlo and touched for a fiver.
It was not until I settled down in London that he came
back into my life. We met in Piccadilly one day, and
resumed our relations where they had been broken off.
Old associations are strong, and the fact that he was about
my build and so could wear my socks and shirts drew us
very close together.</p>
<p>Then he disappeared again, and it was a month or more
before I got news of him.</p>
<p>It was George Tupper who brought the news. George
was head of the school in my last year, and he has fulfilled
exactly the impeccable promise of those early days.
He is in the Foreign Office, doing well and much respected.
He has an earnest, pulpy heart and takes other people’s
troubles very seriously. Often he had mourned to me like
a father over Ukridge’s erratic progress through life, and
now, as he spoke, he seemed to be filled with a solemn joy,
as over a reformed prodigal.</p>
<p>“Have you heard about Ukridge?” said George Tupper.
“He has settled down at last. Gone to live with an aunt
of his who owns one of those big houses on Wimbledon
Common. A very rich woman. I am delighted. It will
be the making of the old chap.”</p>
<p>I suppose he was right in a way, but to me this tame
subsidence into companionship with a rich aunt in
Wimbledon seemed somehow an indecent, almost a tragic,
end to a colourful career like that of S. F. Ukridge. And
when I met the man a week later my heart grew heavier
still.</p>
<p>It was in Oxford Street at the hour when women come
up from the suburbs to shop; and he was standing among
the dogs and commissionaires outside Selfridge’s. His
arms were full of parcels, his face was set in a mask of
wan discomfort, and he was so beautifully dressed that
for an instant I did not recognise him. Everything which
the Correct Man wears was assembled on his person, from
the silk hat to the patent-leather boots; and, as he confided
to me in the first minute, he was suffering the tortures
of the damned. The boots pinched him, the hat
hurt his forehead, and the collar was worse than the hat
and boots combined.</p>
<p>“She makes me wear them,” he said, moodily, jerking
his head towards the interior of the store and uttering a
sharp howl as the movement caused the collar to gouge
his neck.</p>
<p>“Still,” I said, trying to turn his mind to happier things,
“you must be having a great time. George Tupper tells
me that your aunt is rich. I suppose you’re living off the
fat of the land.”</p>
<p>“The browsing and sluicing are good,” admitted
Ukridge. “But it’s a wearing life, laddie. A wearing
life, old horse.”</p>
<p>“Why don’t you come and see me sometimes?”</p>
<p>“I’m not allowed out at night.”</p>
<p>“Well, shall I come and see you?”</p>
<p>A look of poignant alarm shot out from under the silk
hat.</p>
<p>“Don’t dream of it, laddie,” said Ukridge, earnestly.
“Don’t dream of it. You’re a good chap—my best pal
and all that sort of thing—but the fact is, my standing in
the home’s none too solid even now, and one sight of you
would knock my prestige into hash. Aunt Julia would
think you worldly.”</p>
<p>“I’m not worldly.”</p>
<p>“Well, you look worldly. You wear a squash hat and
a soft collar. If you don’t mind my suggesting it, old
horse, I think, if I were you, I’d pop off now before she
comes out. Good-bye, laddie.”</p>
<p>“Ichabod!” I murmured sadly to myself as I passed
on down Oxford Street. “Ichabod!”</p>
<p>I should have had more faith. I should have known
my Ukridge better. I should have realised that a London
suburb could no more imprison that great man permanently
than Elba did Napoleon.</p>
<p>One afternoon, as I let myself into the house in Ebury
Street of which I rented at that time the bedroom and
sitting-room on the first floor, I came upon Bowles, my
landlord, standing in listening attitude at the foot of the
stairs.</p>
<p>“Good afternoon, sir,” said Bowles. “A gentleman is
waiting to see you. I fancy I heard him calling me a
moment ago.”</p>
<p>“Who is he?”</p>
<p>“A Mr. Ukridge, sir. He——”</p>
<p>A vast voice boomed out from above.</p>
<p>“Bowles, old horse!”</p>
<p>Bowles, like all other proprietors of furnished apartments
in the south-western district of London, was an
ex-butler, and about him, as about all ex-butlers, there
clung like a garment an aura of dignified superiority which
had never failed to crush my spirit. He was a man of
portly aspect, with a bald head and prominent eyes of a
lightish green—eyes that seemed to weigh me dispassionately
and find me wanting. “H’m!” they seemed to
say. “Young—very young. And not at all what I have
been accustomed to in the best places.” To hear this
dignitary addressed—and in a shout at that—as “old
horse” affected me with much the same sense of imminent
chaos as would afflict a devout young curate if he saw his
bishop slapped on the back. The shock, therefore, when
he responded not merely mildly but with what almost
amounted to camaraderie was numbing.</p>
<p>“Sir?” cooed Bowles.</p>
<p>“Bring me six bones and a corkscrew.”</p>
<p>“Very good, sir.”</p>
<p>Bowles retired, and I bounded upstairs and flung open
the door of my sitting-room.</p>
<p>“Great Scott!” I said, blankly.</p>
<p>The place was a sea of Pekingese dogs. Later investigation
reduced their numbers to six, but in that first
moment there seemed to be hundreds. Goggling eyes met
mine wherever I looked. The room was a forest of waving
tails. With his back against the mantelpiece, smoking
placidly, stood Ukridge.</p>
<p>“Hallo, laddie!” he said, with a genial wave of the
hand, as if to make me free of the place. “You’re just
in time. I’ve got to dash off and catch a train in a quarter
of an hour. Stop it, you mutts!” he bellowed, and the
six Pekingese, who had been barking steadily since my
arrival, stopped in mid-yap, and were still. Ukridge’s
personality seemed to exercise a magnetism over the
animal kingdom, from ex-butlers to Pekes, which bordered
on the uncanny. “I’m off to Sheep’s Cray, in
Kent. Taken a cottage there.”</p>
<p>“Are you going to live there?”</p>
<p>“Yes.”</p>
<p>“But what about your aunt?”</p>
<p>“Oh, I’ve left her. Life is stern and life is earnest, and
if I mean to make a fortune I’ve got to bustle about and
not stay cooped up in a place like Wimbledon.”</p>
<p>“Something in that.”</p>
<p>“Besides which, she told me the very sight of me made
her sick and she never wanted to see me again.”</p>
<p>I might have guessed, directly I saw him, that some
upheaval had taken place. The sumptuous raiment which
had made him such a treat to the eye at our last meeting
was gone, and he was back in his pre-Wimbledon costume,
which was, as the advertisements say, distinctively
individual. Over grey flannel trousers, a golf coat, and
a brown sweater he wore like a royal robe a bright yellow
mackintosh. His collar had broken free from its stud and
showed a couple of inches of bare neck. His hair was
disordered, and his masterful nose was topped by a pair
of steel-rimmed pince-nez cunningly attached to his flapping
ears with ginger-beer wire. His whole appearance
spelled revolt.</p>
<p>Bowles manifested himself with a plateful of bones.</p>
<p>“That’s right. Chuck ’em down on the floor.”</p>
<p>“Very good, sir.”</p>
<p>“I like that fellow,” said Ukridge, as the door closed.
“We had a dashed interesting talk before you came in.
Did you know he had a cousin on the music-halls?”</p>
<p>“He hasn’t confided in me much.”</p>
<p>“He’s promised me an introduction to him later on.
May be useful to be in touch with a man who knows the
ropes. You see, laddie, I’ve hit on the most amazing
scheme.” He swept his arm round dramatically, overturning
a plaster cast of the Infant Samuel at Prayer.
“All right, all right, you can mend it with glue or something,
and, anyway, you’re probably better without it.
Yessir, I’ve hit on a great scheme. The idea of a thousand
years.”</p>
<p>“What’s that?”</p>
<p>“I’m going to train dogs.”</p>
<p>“Train dogs?”</p>
<p>“For the music-hall stage. Dog acts, you know.
Performing dogs. Pots of money in it. I start in a
modest way with these six. When I’ve taught ’em a few
tricks, I sell them to a fellow in the profession for a large
sum and buy twelve more. I train those, sell ’em for a
large sum, and with the money buy twenty-four more.
I train those——”</p>
<p>“Here, wait a minute.” My head was beginning to
swim. I had a vision of England paved with Pekingese
dogs, all doing tricks. “How do you know you’ll be able
to sell them?”</p>
<p>“Of course I shall. The demand’s enormous. Supply
can’t cope with it. At a conservative estimate I should
think I ought to scoop in four or five thousand pounds the
first year. That, of course, is before the business really
starts to expand.”</p>
<p>“I see.”</p>
<p>“When I get going properly, with a dozen assistants
under me and an organised establishment, I shall begin to
touch the big money. What I’m aiming at is a sort of
Dogs’ College out in the country somewhere. Big place
with a lot of ground. Regular classes and a set curriculum.
Large staff, each member of it with so many dogs under
his care, me looking on and superintending. Why, once
the thing starts moving it’ll run itself, and all I shall have
to do will be to sit back and endorse the cheques. It isn’t
as if I would have to confine my operations to England.
The demand for performing dogs is universal throughout
the civilised world. America wants performing dogs.
Australia wants performing dogs. Africa could do with a
few, I’ve no doubt. My aim, laddie, is gradually to get
a monopoly of the trade. I want everybody who needs
a performing dog of any description to come automatically
to me. And I’ll tell you what, laddie. If you like to
put up a bit of capital, I’ll let you in on the ground floor.”</p>
<p>“No, thanks.”</p>
<p>“All right. Have it your own way. Only don’t forget
that there was a fellow who put nine hundred dollars into
the Ford Car business when it was starting and he collected
a cool forty million. I say, is that clock right?
Great Scott! I’ll be missing my train. Help me mobilise
these dashed animals.”</p>
<p>Five minutes later, accompanied by the six Pekingese
and bearing about him a pound of my tobacco, three pairs
of my socks, and the remains of a bottle of whisky,
Ukridge departed in a taxi-cab for Charing Cross Station
to begin his life-work.</p>
<p>Perhaps six weeks passed, six quiet Ukridgeless weeks,
and then one morning I received an agitated telegram.
Indeed, it was not so much a telegram as a cry of anguish.
In every word of it there breathed the tortured spirit of a
great man who has battled in vain against overwhelming
odds. It was the sort of telegram which Job might have
sent off after a lengthy session with Bildad the Shuhite:—</p>
<p>“Come here immediately, laddie. Life and death
matter, old horse. Desperate situation. Don’t fail me.”</p>
<p>It stirred me like a bugle, I caught the next train.</p>
<p>The White Cottage, Sheep’s Cray—destined, presumably,
to become in future years an historic spot and a
Mecca for dog-loving pilgrims—was a small and battered
building standing near the main road to London at some
distance from the village. I found it without difficulty,
for Ukridge seemed to have achieved a certain celebrity
in the neighbourhood; but to effect an entry was a harder
task. I rapped for a full minute without result, then
shouted; and I was about to conclude that Ukridge was
not at home when the door suddenly opened. As I was
just giving a final bang at the moment, I entered the
house in a manner reminiscent of one of the Ballet Russe
practising a new and difficult step.</p>
<p>“Sorry, old horse,” said Ukridge. “Wouldn’t have
kept you waiting if I’d known who it was. Thought you
were Gooch, the grocer—goods supplied to the value of six
pounds three and a penny.”</p>
<p>“I see.”</p>
<p>“He keeps hounding me for his beastly money,” said
Ukridge, bitterly, as he led the way into the sitting-room.
“It’s a little hard. Upon my Sam it’s a little hard. I
come down here to inaugurate a vast business and do the
natives a bit of good by establishing a growing industry
in their midst, and the first thing you know they turn
round and bite the hand that was going to feed them.
I’ve been hampered and rattled by these blood-suckers
ever since I got here. A little trust, a little sympathy, a
little of the good old give-and-take spirit—that was all I
asked. And what happened? They wanted a bit on
account! Kept bothering me for a bit on account, I’ll
trouble you, just when I needed all my thoughts and all
my energy and every ounce of concentration at my
command for my extraordinarily difficult and delicate
work. <i>I </i> couldn’t give them a bit on account. Later on,
if they had only exercised reasonable patience, I would
no doubt have been in a position to settle their infernal
bills fifty times over. But the time was not ripe. I
reasoned with the men. I said, ‘Here am I, a busy man,
trying hard to educate six Pekingese dogs for the music-hall
stage, and you come distracting my attention and
impairing my efficiency by babbling about a bit on
account. It isn’t the pull-together spirit,’ I said. ‘It
isn’t the spirit that wins to wealth. These narrow petty-cash
ideas can never make for success.’ But no, they
couldn’t see it. They started calling here at all hours and
waylaying me in the public highways till life became an
absolute curse. And now what do you think has happened?”</p>
<p>“What?”</p>
<p>“The dogs.”</p>
<p>“Got distemper?”</p>
<p>“No. Worse. My landlord’s pinched them as security
for his infernal rent! Sneaked the stock. Tied up the
assets. Crippled the business at the very outset. Have
you ever in your life heard of anything so dastardly? I
know I agreed to pay the damned rent weekly and I’m
about six weeks behind, but, my gosh! surely a man with
a huge enterprise on his hands isn’t supposed to have to
worry about these trifles when he’s occupied with the
most delicate——Well, I put all that to old Nickerson,
but a fat lot of good it did. So then I wired to you.”</p>
<p>“Ah!” I said, and there was a brief and pregnant
pause.</p>
<p>“I thought,” said Ukridge, meditatively, “that you
might be able to suggest somebody I could touch.”</p>
<p>He spoke in a detached and almost casual way, but his
eye was gleaming at me significantly, and I avoided it
with a sense of guilt. My finances at the moment were in
their customary unsettled condition—rather more so, in
fact, than usual, owing to unsatisfactory speculations at
Kempton Park on the previous Saturday; and it seemed
to me that, if ever there was a time for passing the buck,
this was it. I mused tensely. It was an occasion for
quick thinking.</p>
<p>“George Tupper!” I cried, on the crest of a brain-wave.</p>
<p>“George Tupper?” echoed Ukridge, radiantly, his
gloom melting like fog before the sun. “The very man,
by Gad! It’s a most amazing thing, but I never thought
of him. George Tupper, of course! Big-hearted George,
the old school-chum. He’ll do it like a shot and won’t
miss the money. These Foreign Office blokes have always
got a spare tenner or two tucked away in the old sock.
They pinch it out of the public funds. Rush back to
town, laddie, with all speed, get hold of Tuppy,
lush him up, and bite his ear for twenty quid. Now
is the time for all good men to come to the aid of the
party.”</p>
<p>I had been convinced that George Tupper would not
fail us, nor did he. He parted without a murmur—even
with enthusiasm. The consignment was one that might
have been made to order for him. As a boy, George used
to write sentimental poetry for the school magazine, and
now he is the sort of man who is always starting subscription
lists and getting up memorials and presentations.
He listened to my story with the serious official air which
these Foreign Office fellows put on when they are deciding
whether to declare war on Switzerland or send a firm note
to San Marino, and was reaching for his cheque-book
before I had been speaking two minutes. Ukridge’s sad
case seemed to move him deeply.</p>
<p>“Too bad,” said George. “So he is training dogs, is
he? Well, it seems very unfair that, if he has at last
settled down to real work, he should be hampered by
financial difficulties at the outset. We ought to do something
practical for him. After all, a loan of twenty pounds
cannot relieve the situation permanently.”</p>
<p>“I think you’re a bit optimistic if you’re looking on it
as a loan.”</p>
<p>“What Ukridge needs is capital.”</p>
<p>“He thinks that, too. So does Gooch, the grocer.”</p>
<p>“Capital,” repeated George Tupper, firmly, as if he
were reasoning with the plenipotentiary of some Great
Power. “Every venture requires capital at first.” He
frowned thoughtfully. “Where can we obtain capital
for Ukridge?”</p>
<p>“Rob a bank.”</p>
<p>George Tupper’s face cleared.</p>
<p>“I have it!” he said. “I will go straight over to
Wimbledon to-night and approach his aunt.”</p>
<p>“Aren’t you forgetting that Ukridge is about as popular
with her as a cold welsh rabbit?”</p>
<p>“There may be a temporary estrangement, but if I tell
her the facts and impress upon her that Ukridge is really
making a genuine effort to earn a living——”</p>
<p>“Well, try it if you like. But she will probably set the
parrot on to you.”</p>
<p>“It will have to be done diplomatically, of course. It
might be as well if you did not tell Ukridge what I propose
to do. I do not wish to arouse hopes which may not be
fulfilled.”</p>
<p>A blaze of yellow on the platform of Sheep’s Cray
Station next morning informed me that Ukridge had come
to meet my train. The sun poured down from a cloudless
sky, but it took more than sunshine to make Stanley
Featherstonehaugh Ukridge discard his mackintosh. He
looked like an animated blob of mustard.</p>
<p>When the train rolled in, he was standing in solitary
grandeur trying to light his pipe, but as I got out I perceived
that he had been joined by a sad-looking man, who,
from the rapid and earnest manner in which he talked
and the vehemence of his gesticulations, appeared to be
ventilating some theme on which he felt deeply. Ukridge
was looking warm and harassed, and, as I approached, I
could hear his voice booming in reply.</p>
<p>“My dear sir, my dear old horse, do be reasonable, do
try to cultivate the big, broad flexible outlook——”</p>
<p>He saw me and broke away—not unwillingly; and,
gripping my arm, drew me off along the platform. The
sad-looking man followed irresolutely.</p>
<p>“Have you got the stuff, laddie?” enquired Ukridge,
in a tense whisper. “Have you got it?”</p>
<p>“Yes, here it is.”</p>
<p>“Put it back, put it back!” moaned Ukridge in agony,
as I felt in my pocket. “Do you know who that was I was
talking to? Gooch, the grocer!”</p>
<p>“Goods supplied to the value of six pounds three and
a penny?”</p>
<p>“Absolutely!”</p>
<p>“Well, now’s your chance. Fling him a purse of gold.
That’ll make him look silly.”</p>
<p>“My dear old horse, I can’t afford to go about the place
squandering my cash simply in order to make grocers
look silly. That money is earmarked for Nickerson, my
landlord.”</p>
<p>“Oh! I say, I think the six pounds three and a penny
bird is following us.”</p>
<p>“Then for goodness’ sake, laddie, let’s get a move on!
If that man knew we had twenty quid on us, our lives
wouldn’t be safe. He’d make one spring.”</p>
<p>He hurried me out of the station and led the way up
a shady lane that wound off through the fields, slinking
furtively “like one that on a lonesome road doth walk in
fear and dread, and having once looked back walks on
and turns no more his head, because he knows a frightful
fiend doth close behind him tread.” As a matter of fact,
the frightful fiend had given up the pursuit after the first
few steps, and a moment later I drew this fact to Ukridge’s
attention, for it was not the sort of day on which to break
walking records unnecessarily.</p>
<p>He halted, relieved, and mopped his spacious brow with
a handkerchief which I recognised as having once been
my property.</p>
<p>“Thank goodness we’ve shaken him off,” he said.
“Not a bad chap in his way, I believe—a good husband
and father, I’m told, and sings in the church choir. But
no vision. That’s what he lacks, old horse—vision. He
can’t understand that all vast industrial enterprises have
been built up on a system of liberal and cheerful credit.
Won’t realise that credit is the life-blood of commerce.
Without credit commerce has no elasticity. And if commerce
has no elasticity what dam’ good is it?”</p>
<p>“I don’t know.”</p>
<p>“Nor does anybody else. Well, now that he’s gone, you
can give me that money. Did old Tuppy cough up
cheerfully?”</p>
<p>“Blithely.”</p>
<p>“I knew it,” said Ukridge, deeply moved, “I knew it.
A good fellow. One of the best. I’ve always liked Tuppy.
A man you can rely on. Some day, when I get going on a
big scale, he shall have this back a thousandfold. I’m
glad you brought small notes.”</p>
<p>“Why?”</p>
<p>“I want to scatter ’em about on the table in front of
this Nickerson blighter.”</p>
<p>“Is this where he lives?”</p>
<p>We had come to a red-roofed house, set back from the
road amidst trees. Ukridge wielded the knocker forcefully.</p>
<p>“Tell Mr. Nickerson,” he said to the maid, “that Mr.
Ukridge has called and would like a word.”</p>
<p>About the demeanour of the man who presently entered
the room into which we had been shown there was that
subtle but well-marked something which stamps your
creditor all the world over. Mr. Nickerson was a man of
medium height, almost completely surrounded by whiskers,
and through the shrubbery he gazed at Ukridge with
frozen eyes, shooting out waves of deleterious animal
magnetism. You could see at a glance that he was not
fond of Ukridge. Take him for all in all, Mr. Nickerson
looked like one of the less amiable prophets of the Old
Testament about to interview the captive monarch of the
Amalekites.</p>
<p>“Well?” he said, and I have never heard the word
spoken in a more forbidding manner.</p>
<p>“I’ve come about the rent.”</p>
<p>“Ah!” said Mr. Nickerson, guardedly.</p>
<p>“To pay it,” said Ukridge.</p>
<p>“To pay it!” ejaculated Mr. Nickerson, incredulously.</p>
<p>“Here!” said Ukridge, and with a superb gesture flung
money on the table.</p>
<p>I understood now why the massive-minded man had
wanted small notes. They made a brave display. There
was a light breeze blowing in through the open window,
and so musical a rustling did it set up as it played about
the heaped-up wealth that Mr. Nickerson’s austerity
seemed to vanish like breath off a razor-blade. For a
moment a dazed look came into his eyes and he swayed
slightly; then, as he started to gather up the money,
he took on the benevolent air of a bishop blessing pilgrims.
As far as Mr. Nickerson was concerned, the sun was up.</p>
<p>“Why, thank you, Mr. Ukridge, I’m sure,” he said.
“Thank you very much. No hard feelings, I trust?”</p>
<p>“Not on my side, old horse,” responded Ukridge,
affably. “Business is business.”</p>
<p>“Exactly.”</p>
<p>“Well, I may as well take those dogs now,” said Ukridge,
helping himself to a cigar from a box which he had just
discovered on the mantelpiece and putting a couple more
in his pocket in the friendliest way. “The sooner they’re
back with me, the better. They’ve lost a day’s education
as it is.”</p>
<p>“Why, certainly, Mr. Ukridge; certainly. They are
in the shed at the bottom of the garden. I will get them
for you at once.”</p>
<p>He retreated through the door, babbling ingratiatingly.</p>
<p>“Amazing how fond these blokes are of money,” sighed
Ukridge. “It’s a thing I don’t like to see. Sordid, I call
it. That blighter’s eyes were gleaming, positively gleaming,
laddie, as he scooped up the stuff. Good cigars these,”
he added, pocketing three more.</p>
<p>There was a faltering footstep outside, and Mr. Nickerson
re-entered the room. The man appeared to have
something on his mind. A glassy look was in his whisker-bordered
eyes, and his mouth, though it was not easy to
see it through the jungle, seemed to me to be sagging
mournfully. He resembled a minor prophet who has
been hit behind the ear with a stuffed eel-skin.</p>
<p>“Mr. Ukridge!”</p>
<p>“Hallo?”</p>
<p>“The—the little dogs!”</p>
<p>“Well?”</p>
<p>“The little dogs!”</p>
<p>“What about them?”</p>
<p>“They have gone!”</p>
<p>“Gone?”</p>
<p>“Run away!”</p>
<p>“Run away? How the devil could they run away?”</p>
<p>“There seems to have been a loose board at the back
of the shed. The little dogs must have wriggled through.
There is no trace of them to be found.”</p>
<p>Ukridge flung up his arms despairingly. He swelled
like a captive balloon. His pince-nez rocked on his nose,
his mackintosh flapped menacingly, and his collar sprang
off its stud. He brought his fist down with a crash on
the table.</p>
<p>“Upon my Sam!”</p>
<p>“I am extremely sorry——”</p>
<p>“Upon my Sam!” cried Ukridge. “It’s hard. It’s
pretty hard. I come down here to inaugurate a great
business, which would eventually have brought trade and
prosperity to the whole neighbourhood, and I have hardly
had time to turn round and attend to the preliminary
details of the enterprise when this man comes and sneaks
my dogs. And now he tells me with a light laugh——”</p>
<p>“Mr. Ukridge, I assure you——”</p>
<p>“Tells me with a light laugh that they’ve gone. Gone!
Gone where? Why, dash it, they may be all over the
county. A fat chance I’ve got of ever seeing them
again. Six valuable Pekingese, already educated practically
to the stage where they could have been sold at an
enormous profit——”</p>
<p>Mr. Nickerson was fumbling guiltily, and now he produced
from his pocket a crumpled wad of notes, which he
thrust agitatedly upon Ukridge, who waved them away
with loathing.</p>
<p>“This gentleman,” boomed Ukridge, indicating me
with a sweeping gesture, “happens to be a lawyer. It is
extremely lucky that he chanced to come down to-day
to pay me a visit. Have you followed the proceedings
closely?”</p>
<p>I said I had followed them very closely.</p>
<p>“Is it your opinion that an action will lie?”</p>
<p>I said it seemed highly probable, and this expert ruling
appeared to put the final touch on Mr. Nickerson’s collapse.
Almost tearfully he urged the notes on Ukridge.</p>
<p>“What’s this?” said Ukridge, loftily.</p>
<p>“I—I thought, Mr. Ukridge, that, if it were agreeable
to you, you might consent to take your money back, and—and
consider the episode closed.”</p>
<p>Ukridge turned to me with raised eyebrows.</p>
<p>“Ha!” he cried. “Ha, ha!”</p>
<p>“Ha, ha!” I chorused, dutifully.</p>
<p>“He thinks that he can close the episode by giving me
my money back. Isn’t that rich?”</p>
<p>“Fruity,” I agreed.</p>
<p>“Those dogs were worth hundreds of pounds, and he
thinks he can square me with a rotten twenty. Would
you have believed it if you hadn’t heard it with your own
ears, old horse?”</p>
<p>“Never!”</p>
<p>“I’ll tell you what I’ll do,” said Ukridge, after thought.
“I’ll take this money.” Mr. Nickerson thanked him.
“And there are one or two trifling accounts which want
settling with some of the local tradesmen. You will
square those——”</p>
<p>“Certainly, Mr. Ukridge, certainly.”</p>
<p>“And after that—well, I’ll have to think it over. If I
decide to institute proceedings my lawyer will communicate
with you in due course.”</p>
<p>And we left the wretched man, cowering despicably
behind his whiskers.</p>
<p>It seemed to me, as we passed down the tree-shaded
lane and out into the white glare of the road, that Ukridge
was bearing himself in his hour of disaster with a rather
admirable fortitude. His stock-in-trade, the life-blood
of his enterprise, was scattered all over Kent, probably
never to return, and all that he had to show on the other
side of the balance-sheet was the cancelling of a few weeks’
back rent and the paying-off of Gooch, the grocer, and his
friends. It was a situation which might well have
crushed the spirit of an ordinary man, but Ukridge seemed
by no means dejected. Jaunty, rather. His eyes shone
behind their pince-nez and he whistled a rollicking air.
When presently he began to sing, I felt that it was time
to create a diversion.</p>
<p>“What are you going to do?” I asked.</p>
<p>“Who, me?” said Ukridge, buoyantly. “Oh, I’m
coming back to town on the next train. You don’t mind
hoofing it to the next station, do you? It’s only five
miles. It might be a trifle risky to start from Sheep’s
Cray.”</p>
<p>“Why risky?”</p>
<p>“Because of the dogs, of course.”</p>
<p>“Dogs?”</p>
<p>Ukridge hummed a gay strain.</p>
<p>“Oh, yes. I forgot to tell you about that. I’ve got
’em.”</p>
<p>“What?”</p>
<p>“Yes. I went out late last night and pinched them out
of the shed.” He chuckled amusedly. “Perfectly simple.
Only needed a clear, level head. I borrowed a dead cat
and tied a string to it, legged it to old Nickerson’s garden
after dark, dug a board out of the back of the shed, and
shoved my head down and chirruped. The dogs came
trickling out, and I hared off, towing old Colonel Cat on
his string. Great run while it lasted, laddie. Hounds
picked up the scent right away and started off in a bunch
at fifty miles an hour. Cat and I doing a steady fifty-five.
Thought every minute old Nickerson would hear
and start blazing away with a gun, but nothing happened.
I led the pack across country for a run of twenty minutes
without a check, parked the dogs in my sitting-room, and
so to bed. Took it out of me, by gosh! Not so young
as I was.”</p>
<p>I was silent for a moment, conscious of a feeling almost
of reverence. This man was undoubtedly spacious.
There had always been something about Ukridge that
dulled the moral sense.</p>
<p>“Well,” I said at length, “you’ve certainly got vision.”</p>
<p>“Yes?” said Ukridge, gratified.</p>
<p>“<i>And </i> the big, broad, flexible outlook.”</p>
<p>“Got to, laddie, nowadays. The foundation of a
successful business career.”</p>
<p>“And what’s the next move?”</p>
<p>We were drawing near to the White Cottage. It stood
and broiled in the sunlight, and I hoped that there might
be something cool to drink inside it. The window of the
sitting-room was open, and through it came the yapping of
Pekingese.</p>
<p>“Oh, I shall find another cottage somewhere else,” said
Ukridge, eyeing his little home with a certain sentimentality.
“That won’t be hard. Lots of cottages all over
the place. And then I shall buckle down to serious work.
You’ll be astounded at the progress I’ve made already.
In a minute I’ll show you what those dogs can do.”</p>
<p>“They can bark all right.”</p>
<p>“Yes. They seem excited about something. You
know, laddie, I’ve had a great idea. When I saw you at
your rooms my scheme was to specialise in performing
dogs for the music-halls—what you might call professional
dogs. But I’ve been thinking it over, and now
I don’t see why I shouldn’t go in for developing amateur
talent as well. Say you have a dog—Fido, the household
pet—and you think it would brighten the home if he could
do a few tricks from time to time. Well, you’re a busy
man, you haven’t the time to give up to teaching him.
So you just tie a label to his collar and ship him off for a
month to the Ukridge Dog College, and back he comes,
thoroughly educated. No trouble, no worry, easy terms.
Upon my Sam, I’m not sure there isn’t more money in
the amateur branch than in the professional. I don’t see
why eventually dog owners shouldn’t send their dogs to
me as a regular thing, just as they send their sons to Eton
and Winchester. My golly! this idea’s beginning to
develop. I’ll tell you what—how would it be to issue
special collars to all dogs which have graduated from my
college? Something distinctive which everybody would
recognise. See what I mean? Sort of badge of honour.
Fellow with a dog entitled to wear the Ukridge collar
would be in a position to look down on the bloke whose
dog hadn’t got one. Gradually it would get so that anybody
in a decent social position would be ashamed to be
seen out with a non-Ukridge dog. The thing would
become a landslide. Dogs would pour in from all corners
of the country. More work than I could handle. Have
to start branches. The scheme’s colossal. Millions in it,
my boy! Millions!” He paused with his fingers on the
handle of the front door. “Of course,” he went on,
“just at present it’s no good blinking the fact that I’m
hampered and handicapped by lack of funds and can only
approach the thing on a small scale. What it amounts to,
laddie, is that somehow or other I’ve got to get capital.”</p>
<p>It seemed the moment to spring the glad news.</p>
<p>“I promised him I wouldn’t mention it,” I said, “for
fear it might lead to disappointment, but as a matter of
fact George Tupper is trying to raise some capital for you.
I left him last night starting out to get it.”</p>
<p>“George Tupper!”—Ukridge’s eyes dimmed with a not
unmanly emotion—“George Tupper! By Gad, that
fellow is the salt of the earth. Good, loyal fellow! A
true friend. A man you can rely on. Upon my Sam, if
there were more fellows about like old Tuppy, there
wouldn’t be all this modern pessimism and unrest. Did
he seem to have any idea where he could raise a bit of
capital for me?”</p>
<p>“Yes. He went round to tell your aunt about your
coming down here to train those Pekes, and——What’s
the matter?”</p>
<p>A fearful change had come over Ukridge’s jubilant front.
His eyes bulged, his jaw sagged. With the addition of
a few feet of grey whiskers he would have looked exactly
like the recent Mr. Nickerson.</p>
<p>“My aunt?” he mumbled, swaying on the door-handle.</p>
<p>“Yes. What’s the matter? He thought, if he told
her all about it, she might relent and rally round.”</p>
<p>The sigh of a gallant fighter at the end of his strength
forced its way up from Ukridge’s mackintosh-covered
bosom.</p>
<p>“Of all the dashed, infernal, officious, meddling, muddling,
fat-headed, interfering asses,” he said, wanly,
“George Tupper is the worst.”</p>
<p>“What do you mean?”</p>
<p>“The man oughtn’t to be at large. He’s a public
menace.”</p>
<p>“But——”</p>
<p>“Those dogs <i>belong </i> to my aunt. I pinched them when
she chucked me out!”</p>
<p>Inside the cottage the Pekingese were still yapping
industriously.</p>
<p>“Upon my Sam,” said Ukridge, “it’s a little hard.”</p>
<p>I think he would have said more, but at this point a
voice spoke with a sudden and awful abruptness from the
interior of the cottage. It was a woman’s voice, a quiet,
steely voice, a voice, it seemed to me, that suggested cold
eyes, a beaky nose, and hair like gun-metal.</p>
<p>“Stanley!”</p>
<p>That was all it said, but it was enough. Ukridge’s eye
met mine in a wild surmise. He seemed to shrink into
his mackintosh like a snail surprised while eating lettuce.</p>
<p>“Stanley!”</p>
<p>“Yes, Aunt Julia?” quavered Ukridge.</p>
<p>“Come here. I wish to speak to you.”</p>
<p>“Yes, Aunt Julia.”</p>
<p>I sidled out into the road. Inside the cottage the yapping
of the Pekingese had become quite hysterical. I
found myself trotting, and then—though it was a warm day—running
quite rapidly. I could have stayed if I had
wanted to, but somehow I did not want to. Something
seemed to tell me that on this holy domestic scene I should
be an intruder.</p>
<p>What it was that gave me that impression I do not
know—probably vision or the big, broad, flexible outlook.</p>
<h2 id="CH2">  CHAPTER II </h2>
<div class="chtitle">  UKRIDGE’S ACCIDENT SYNDICATE </div>
<p>“Half a minute, laddie,” said Ukridge. And,
gripping my arm, he brought me to a halt
on the outskirts of the little crowd which
had collected about the church door.</p>
<p>It was a crowd such as may be seen any morning during
the London mating-season outside any of the churches
which nestle in the quiet squares between Hyde Park and
the King’s Road, Chelsea.</p>
<p>It consisted of five women of cooklike aspect, four nurse-maids,
half a dozen men of the non-producing class who
had torn themselves away for the moment from their normal
task of propping up the wall of the Bunch of Grapes public-house
on the corner, a costermonger with a barrow of
vegetables, divers small boys, eleven dogs, and two or three
purposeful-looking young fellows with cameras slung over
their shoulders. It was plain that a wedding was in progress—and,
arguing from the presence of the camera-men
and the line of smart motor-cars along the kerb, a fairly
fashionable wedding. What was not plain—to me—was
why Ukridge, sternest of bachelors, had desired to add
himself to the spectators.</p>
<p>“What,” I enquired, “is the thought behind this? Why
are we interrupting our walk to attend the obsequies of
some perfect stranger?”</p>
<p>Ukridge did not reply for a moment. He seemed plunged
in thought. Then he uttered a hollow, mirthless laugh—a
dreadful sound like the last gargle of a dying moose.</p>
<p>“Perfect stranger, my number eleven foot!” he responded,
in his coarse way. “Do you know who it is
who’s getting hitched up in there?”</p>
<p>“Who?”</p>
<p>“Teddy Weeks.”</p>
<p>“Teddy Weeks? Teddy Weeks? Good Lord!” I
exclaimed. “Not really?”</p>
<p>And five years rolled away.</p>
<p>It was at Barolini’s Italian restaurant in Beak Street
that Ukridge evolved his great scheme. Barolini’s was
a favourite resort of our little group of earnest strugglers
in the days when the philanthropic restaurateurs of Soho
used to supply four courses and coffee for a shilling and
sixpence; and there were present that night, besides
Ukridge and myself, the following men-about-town:
Teddy Weeks, the actor, fresh from a six-weeks’ tour with
the Number Three “Only a Shop-Girl” Company; Victor
Beamish, the artist, the man who drew that picture of the
O-So-Eesi Piano-Player in the advertisement pages of the
 <i>Piccadilly Magazine</i>; Bertram Fox, author of <i>Ashes of
Remorse</i>, and other unproduced motion-picture scenarios;
and Robert Dunhill, who, being employed at a salary of
eighty pounds per annum by the New Asiatic Bank, represented
the sober, hard-headed commercial element. As
usual, Teddy Weeks had collared the conversation, and
was telling us once again how good he was and how hardly
treated by a malignant fate.</p>
<p>There is no need to describe Teddy Weeks. Under
another and a more euphonious name he has long since
made his personal appearance dreadfully familiar to all
who read the illustrated weekly papers. He was then, as
now, a sickeningly handsome young man, possessing precisely
the same melting eyes, mobile mouth, and corrugated
hair so esteemed by the theatre-going public to-day. And
yet, at this period of his career he was wasting himself on
minor touring companies of the kind which open at Barrow-in-Furness
and jump to Bootle for the second half of the
week. He attributed this, as Ukridge was so apt to attribute
his own difficulties, to lack of capital.</p>
<p>“I have everything,” he said, querulously, emphasising
his remarks with a coffee-spoon. “Looks, talent, personality,
a beautiful speaking-voice—everything. All I need
is a chance. And I can’t get that because I have no clothes
fit to wear. These managers are all the same, they never
look below the surface, they never bother to find out if a
man has genius. All they go by are his clothes. If I could
afford to buy a couple of suits from a Cork Street tailor, if
I could have my boots made to order by Moykoff instead of
getting them ready-made and second-hand at Moses
Brothers’, if I could once contrive to own a decent hat, a
really good pair of spats, and a gold cigarette-case, all at the
same time, I could walk into any manager’s office in London
and sign up for a West-end production to-morrow.”</p>
<p>It was at this point that Freddie Lunt came in. Freddie,
like Robert Dunhill, was a financial magnate in the making
and an assiduous frequenter of Barolini’s; and it suddenly
occurred to us that a considerable time had passed since
we had last seen him in the place. We enquired the reason
for this aloofness.</p>
<p>“I’ve been in bed,” said Freddie, “for over a fortnight.”</p>
<p>The statement incurred Ukridge’s stern disapproval.
That great man made a practice of never rising before
noon, and on one occasion, when a carelessly-thrown match
had burned a hole in his only pair of trousers, had gone so
far as to remain between the sheets for forty-eight hours;
but sloth on so majestic a scale as this shocked him.</p>
<p>“Lazy young devil,” he commented severely. “Letting
the golden hours of youth slip by like that when you ought
to have been bustling about and making a name for yourself.”</p>
<p>Freddie protested himself wronged by the imputation.</p>
<p>“I had an accident,” he explained. “Fell off my
bicycle and sprained an ankle.”</p>
<p>“Tough luck,” was our verdict.</p>
<p>“Oh, I don’t know,” said Freddie. “It wasn’t bad fun
getting a rest. And of course there was the fiver.”</p>
<p>“What fiver?”</p>
<p>“I got a fiver from the <i>Weekly Cyclist</i> for getting my
ankle sprained.”</p>
<p>“You—<i>what?</i>” cried Ukridge, profoundly stirred—as
ever—by a tale of easy money. “Do you mean to sit there
and tell me that some dashed paper paid you five quid
simply because you sprained your ankle? Pull yourself
together, old horse. Things like that don’t happen.”</p>
<p>“It’s quite true.”</p>
<p>“Can you show me the fiver?”</p>
<p>“No; because if I did you would try to borrow it.”</p>
<p>Ukridge ignored this slur in dignified silence.</p>
<p>“Would they pay a fiver to <i>anyone</i> who sprained his
ankle?” he asked, sticking to the main point.</p>
<p>“Yes. If he was a subscriber.”</p>
<p>“I knew there was a catch in it,” said Ukridge, moodily.</p>
<p>“Lots of weekly papers are starting this wheeze,” proceeded
Freddie. “You pay a year’s subscription and that
entitles you to accident insurance.”</p>
<p>We were interested. This was in the days before every
daily paper in London was competing madly against its
rivals in the matter of insurance and offering princely
bribes to the citizens to make a fortune by breaking their
necks. Nowadays papers are paying as high as two thousand
pounds for a genuine corpse and five pounds a week
for a mere dislocated spine; but at that time the idea was
new and it had an attractive appeal.</p>
<p>“How many of these rags are doing this?” asked Ukridge.
You could tell from the gleam in his eyes that that great
brain was whirring like a dynamo.</p>
<p>“As many as ten?”</p>
<p>“Yes, I should think so. Quite ten.”</p>
<p>“Then a fellow who subscribed to them all and then
sprained his ankle would get fifty quid?” said Ukridge,
reasoning acutely.</p>
<p>“More if the injury was more serious,” said Freddie, the
expert. “They have a regular tariff. So much for a
broken arm, so much for a broken leg, and so forth.”</p>
<p>Ukridge’s collar leaped off its stud and his pince-nez
wobbled drunkenly as he turned to us.</p>
<p>“How much money can you blokes raise?” he demanded.</p>
<p>“What do you want it for?” asked Robert Dunhill,
with a banker’s caution.</p>
<p>“My dear old horse, can’t you see? Why, my gosh,
I’ve got the idea of the century. Upon my Sam, this is the
giltest-edged scheme that was ever hatched. We’ll get
together enough money and take out a year’s subscription
for every one of these dashed papers.”</p>
<p>“What’s the good of that?” said Dunhill, coldly unenthusiastic.</p>
<p>They train bank clerks to stifle emotion, so that they will
be able to refuse overdrafts when they become managers.
“The odds are we should none of us have an accident of
any kind, and then the money would be chucked away.”</p>
<p>“Good heavens, ass,” snorted Ukridge, “you don’t suppose
I’m suggesting that we should leave it to chance, do
you? Listen! Here’s the scheme. We take out subscriptions
for all these papers, then we draw lots, and the
fellow who gets the fatal card or whatever it is goes out and
breaks his leg and draws the loot, and we split it up between
us and live on it in luxury. It ought to run into hundreds
of pounds.”</p>
<p>A long silence followed. Then Dunhill spoke again. His
was a solid rather than a nimble mind.</p>
<p>“Suppose he couldn’t break his leg?”</p>
<p>“My gosh!” cried Ukridge, exasperated. “Here we
are in the twentieth century, with every resource of modern
civilisation at our disposal, with opportunities for getting
our legs broken opening about us on every side—and you
ask a silly question like that! Of course he could break
his leg. Any ass can break a leg. It’s a little hard! We’re
all infernally broke—personally, unless Freddie can lend
me a bit of that fiver till Saturday, I’m going to have a
difficult job pulling through. We all need money like the
dickens, and yet, when I point out this marvellous scheme
for collecting a bit, instead of fawning on me for my ready
intelligence you sit and make objections. It isn’t the right
spirit. It isn’t the spirit that wins.”</p>
<p>“If you’re as hard up as that,” objected Dunhill, “how
are you going to put in your share of the pool?”</p>
<p>A pained, almost a stunned, look came into Ukridge’s
eyes. He gazed at Dunhill through his lop-sided pince-nez
as one who speculates as to whether his hearing has deceived
him.</p>
<p>“Me?” he cried. “Me? I like that! Upon my Sam,
that’s rich! Why, damme, if there’s any justice in the
world, if there’s a spark of decency and good feeling in your
bally bosoms, I should think you would let me in free for
suggesting the idea. It’s a little hard! I supply the
brains and you want me to cough up cash as well. My
gosh, I didn’t expect this. This hurts me, by George!
If anybody had told me that an old pal would——”</p>
<p>“Oh, all right,” said Robert Dunhill. “All right, all
right, all right. But I’ll tell you one thing. If you draw
the lot it’ll be the happiest day of my life.”</p>
<p>“I sha’n’t,” said Ukridge. “Something tells me that I
shan’t.”</p>
<p>Nor did he. When, in a solemn silence broken only by
the sound of a distant waiter quarrelling with the cook
down a speaking-tube, we had completed the drawing, the
man of destiny was Teddy Weeks.</p>
<p>I suppose that even in the springtime of Youth, when
broken limbs seems a lighter matter than they become
later in life, it can never be an unmixedly agreeable thing
to have to go out into the public highways and try to
make an accident happen to one. In such circumstances
the reflection that you are thereby benefiting your
friends brings but slight balm. To Teddy Weeks it
appeared to bring no balm at all. That he was experiencing
a certain disinclination to sacrifice himself for the
public good became more and more evident as the days
went by and found him still intact. Ukridge, when he called
upon me to discuss the matter, was visibly perturbed. He
sank into a chair beside the table at which I was beginning
my modest morning meal, and, having drunk half my coffee,
sighed deeply.</p>
<p>“Upon my Sam,” he moaned, “it’s a little disheartening.
I strain my brain to think up schemes for getting us all a
bit of money just at the moment when we are all needing it
most, and when I hit on what is probably the simplest and
yet ripest notion of our time, this blighter Weeks goes and
lets me down by shirking his plain duty. It’s just my
luck that a fellow like that should have drawn the lot. And
the worst of it is, laddie, that, now we’ve started with him,
we’ve got to keep on. We can’t possibly raise enough
money to pay yearly subscriptions for anybody else. It’s
Weeks or nobody.”</p>
<p>“I suppose we must give him time.”</p>
<p>“That’s what he says,” grunted Ukridge, morosely,
helping himself to toast. “He says he doesn’t know how
to start about it. To listen to him, you’d think that going
and having a trifling accident was the sort of delicate and
intricate job that required years of study and special preparation.
Why, a child of six could do it on his head at
five minutes’ notice. The man’s so infernally particular.
You make helpful suggestions, and instead of accepting
them in a broad, reasonable spirit of co-operation he comes
back at you every time with some frivolous objection. He’s
so dashed fastidious. When we were out last night, we
came on a couple of navvies scrapping. Good hefty fellows,
either of them capable of putting him in hospital for a
month. I told him to jump in and start separating them,
and he said no; it was a private dispute which was none
of his business, and he didn’t feel justified in interfering.
Finicky, I call it. I tell you, laddie, this blighter is a broken
reed. He has got cold feet. We did wrong to let him into
the drawing at all. We might have known that a fellow like
that would never give results. No conscience. No sense
of esprit de corps. No notion of putting himself out to the
most trifling extent for the benefit of the community.
Haven’t you any more marmalade, laddie?”</p>
<p>“I have not.”</p>
<p>“Then I’ll be going,” said Ukridge, moodily. “I suppose,”
he added, pausing at the door, “you couldn’t lend
me five bob?”</p>
<p>“How did you guess?”</p>
<p>“Then I’ll tell you what,” said Ukridge, ever fair and
reasonable; “you can stand me dinner to-night.” He
seemed cheered up for the moment by this happy compromise,
but gloom descended on him again. His face
clouded. “When I think,” he said, “of all the money
that’s locked up in that poor faint-hearted fish, just waiting
to be released, I could sob. Sob, laddie, like a little child.
I never liked that man—he has a bad eye and waves his
hair. Never trust a man who waves his hair, old horse.”</p>
<p>Ukridge’s pessimism was not confined to himself. By
the end of a fortnight, nothing having happened to Teddy
Weeks worse than a slight cold which he shook off in a
couple of days, the general consensus of opinion among
his apprehensive colleagues in the Syndicate was that the
situation had become desperate. There were no signs
whatever of any return on the vast capital which we had laid
out, and meanwhile meals had to be bought, landladies paid,
and a reasonable supply of tobacco acquired. It was a
melancholy task in these circumstances to read one’s paper
of a morning.</p>
<p>All over the inhabited globe, so the well-informed sheet
gave one to understand, every kind of accident was happening
every day to practically everybody in existence except
Teddy Weeks. Farmers in Minnesota were getting mixed
up with reaping-machines, peasants in India were being
bisected by crocodiles; iron girders from skyscrapers were
falling hourly on the heads of citizens in every town from
Philadelphia to San Francisco; and the only people who
were not down with ptomaine poisoning were those who
had walked over cliffs, driven motors into walls, tripped
over manholes, or assumed on too slight evidence that the
gun was not loaded. In a crippled world, it seemed, Teddy
Weeks walked alone, whole and glowing with health. It
was one of those grim, ironical, hopeless, grey, despairful
situations which the Russian novelists love to write about,
and I could not find it in me to blame Ukridge for taking
direct action in this crisis. My only regret was that bad
luck caused so excellent a plan to miscarry.</p>
<p>My first intimation that he had been trying to hurry
matters on came when he and I were walking along the
King’s Road one evening, and he drew me into Markham
Square, a dismal backwater where he had once had rooms.</p>
<p>“What’s the idea?” I asked, for I disliked the place.</p>
<p>“Teddy Weeks lives here,” said Ukridge. “In my old
rooms.” I could not see that this lent any fascination to
the place. Every day and in every way I was feeling
sorrier and sorrier that I had been foolish enough to put
money which I could ill spare into a venture which had all
the earmarks of a wash-out, and my sentiments towards
Teddy Weeks were cold and hostile.</p>
<p>“I want to enquire after him.”</p>
<p>“Enquire after him? Why?”</p>
<p>“Well, the fact is, laddie, I have an idea that he has
been bitten by a dog.”</p>
<p>“What makes you think that?”</p>
<p>“Oh, I don’t know,” said Ukridge, dreamily. “I’ve
just got the idea. You know how one gets ideas.”</p>
<p>The mere contemplation of this beautiful event was so
inspiring that for awhile it held me silent. In each of the
ten journals in which we had invested dog-bites were specifically
recommended as things which every subscriber ought
to have. They came about half-way up the list of lucrative
accidents, inferior to a broken rib or a fractured fibula, but
better value than an ingrowing toe-nail. I was gloating
happily over the picture conjured up by Ukridge’s words
when an exclamation brought me back with a start to the
realities of life. A revolting sight met my eyes. Down the
street came ambling the familiar figure of Teddy Weeks, and
one glance at his elegant person was enough to tell us that
our hopes had been built on sand. Not even a toy Pomeranian
had chewed this man.</p>
<p>“Hallo, you fellows!” said Teddy Weeks.</p>
<p>“Hallo!” we responded, dully.</p>
<p>“Can’t stop,” said Teddy Weeks. “I’ve got to fetch a
doctor.”</p>
<p>“A doctor?”</p>
<p>“Yes. Poor Victor Beamish. He’s been bitten by a
dog.”</p>
<p>Ukridge and I exchanged weary glances. It seemed as
if Fate was going out of its way to have sport with us.
What was the good of a dog biting Victor Beamish?
What was the good of a hundred dogs biting Victor Beamish?
A dog-bitten Victor Beamish had no market value whatever.</p>
<p>“You know that fierce brute that belongs to my landlady,”
said Teddy Weeks. “The one that always dashes
out into the area and barks at people who come to the front
door.” I remembered. A large mongrel with wild eyes and
flashing fangs, badly in need of a haircut. I had encountered
it once in the street, when visiting Ukridge, and only
the presence of the latter, who knew it well and to whom all
dogs were as brothers, had saved me from the doom of
Victor Beamish. “Somehow or other he got into my bedroom
this evening. He was waiting there when I came
home. I had brought Beamish back with me, and the
animal pinned him by the leg the moment I opened the
door.”</p>
<p>“Why didn’t he pin you?” asked Ukridge, aggrieved.</p>
<p>“What I can’t make out,” said Teddy Weeks, “is how
on earth the brute came to be in my room. Somebody
must have put him there. The whole thing is very
mysterious.”</p>
<p>“Why didn’t he pin you?” demanded Ukridge again.</p>
<p>“Oh, I managed to climb on to the top of the wardrobe
while he was biting Beamish,” said Teddy Weeks. “And
then the landlady came and took him away. But I can’t
stop here talking. I must go and get that doctor.”</p>
<p>We gazed after him in silence as he tripped down the
street. We noted the careful manner in which he paused
at the corner to eye the traffic before crossing the road, the
wary way in which he drew back to allow a truck to rattle
past.</p>
<p>“You heard that?” said Ukridge, tensely. “He
climbed on to the top of the wardrobe!”</p>
<p>“Yes.”</p>
<p>“And you saw the way he dodged that excellent truck?”</p>
<p>“Yes.”</p>
<p>“Something’s got to be done,” said Ukridge, firmly.</p>
<p>“The man has got to be awakened to a sense of his responsibilities.”</p>
<p>Next day a deputation waited on Teddy Weeks.</p>
<p>Ukridge was our spokesman, and he came to the point
with admirable directness.</p>
<p>“How about it?” asked Ukridge.</p>
<p>“How about what?” replied Teddy Weeks, nervously,
avoiding his accusing eye.</p>
<p>“When do we get action?”</p>
<p>“Oh, you mean that accident business?”</p>
<p>“Yes.”</p>
<p>“I’ve been thinking about that,” said Teddy Weeks.</p>
<p>Ukridge drew the mackintosh which he wore indoors and
out of doors and in all weathers more closely around him.
There was in the action something suggestive of a member of
the Roman Senate about to denounce an enemy of the State.
In just such a manner must Cicero have swished his toga
as he took a deep breath preparatory to assailing Clodius.
He toyed for a moment with the ginger-beer wire which
held his pince-nez in place, and endeavoured without success
to button his collar at the back. In moments of emotion
Ukridge’s collar always took on a sort of temperamental
jumpiness which no stud could restrain.</p>
<p>“And about time you <i>were</i> thinking about it,” he boomed,
sternly.</p>
<p>We shifted appreciatively in our seats, all except Victor
Beamish, who had declined a chair and was standing by
the mantelpiece. “Upon my Sam, it’s about time you
were thinking about it. Do you realise that we’ve invested
an enormous sum of money in you on the distinct understanding
that we could rely on you to do your duty and get
immediate results? Are we to be forced to the conclusion
that you are so yellow and few in the pod as to want to
evade your honourable obligations? We thought better
of you, Weeks. Upon my Sam, we thought better of you.
We took you for a two-fisted, enterprising, big-souled, one
hundred-per-cent. he-man who would stand by his friends
to the finish.”</p>
<p>“Yes, but——”</p>
<p>“Any bloke with a sense of loyalty and an appreciation
of what it meant to the rest of us would have rushed out
and found some means of fulfilling his duty long ago. You
don’t even grasp at the opportunities that come your way.
Only yesterday I saw you draw back when a single step
into the road would have had a truck bumping into you.”</p>
<p>“Well, it’s not so easy to let a truck bump into you.”</p>
<p>“Nonsense. It only requires a little ordinary resolution.
Use your imagination, man. Try to think that a child
has fallen down in the street—a little golden-haired child,”
said Ukridge, deeply affected. “And a dashed great cab
or something comes rolling up. The kid’s mother is standing
on the pavement, helpless, her hands clasped in agony.
‘Dammit,’ she cries, ‘will no one save my darling?’
‘Yes, by George,’ you shout, ‘<i>I</i> will.’ And out you jump
and the thing’s over in half a second. I don’t know what
you’re making such a fuss about.”</p>
<p>“Yes, but——” said Teddy Weeks.</p>
<p>“I’m told, what’s more, it isn’t a bit painful. A sort
of dull shock, that’s all.”</p>
<p>“Who told you that?”</p>
<p>“I forget. Someone.”</p>
<p>“Well, you can tell him from me that he’s an ass,” said
Teddy Weeks, with asperity.</p>
<p>“All right. If you object to being run over by a truck
there are lots of other ways. But, upon my Sam, it’s pretty
hopeless suggesting them. You seem to have no enterprise
at all. Yesterday, after I went to all the trouble to put a
dog in your room, a dog which would have done all the
work for you—all that you had to do was stand still and
let him use his own judgment—what happened? You
climbed on to——”</p>
<p>Victor Beamish interrupted, speaking in a voice husky
with emotion.</p>
<p>“Was it you who put that damned dog in the room?”</p>
<p>“Eh?” said Ukridge. “Why, yes. But we can have
a good talk about all that later on,” he proceeded, hastily.
“The point at the moment is how the dickens we’re going
to persuade this poor worm to collect our insurance money
for us. Why, damme, I should have thought you would
have——”</p>
<p>“All I can say——” began Victor Beamish, heatedly.</p>
<p>“Yes, yes,” said Ukridge; “some other time. Must
stick to business now, laddie. I was saying,” he resumed,
“that I should have thought you would have been as keen
as mustard to put the job through for your own sake.
You’re always beefing that you haven’t any clothes to
impress managers with. Think of all you can buy with your
share of the swag once you have summoned up a little
ordinary determination and seen the thing through. Think
of the suits, the boots, the hats, the spats. You’re always
talking about your dashed career, and how all you need to
land you in a West-end production is good clothes. Well,
here’s your chance to get them.”</p>
<p>His eloquence was not wasted. A wistful look came into
Teddy Weeks’s eye, such a look as must have come into the
eye of Moses on the summit of Pisgah. He breathed
heavily. You could see that the man was mentally walking
along Cork Street, weighing the merits of one famous tailor
against another.</p>
<p>“I’ll tell you what I’ll do,” he said, suddenly. “It’s no
use asking me to put this thing through in cold blood. I
simply can’t do it. I haven’t the nerve. But if you fellows
will give me a dinner to-night with lots of champagne I
think it will key me up to it.”</p>
<p>A heavy silence fell upon the room. Champagne! The
word was like a knell.</p>
<p>“How on earth are we going to afford champagne?”
said Victor Beamish.</p>
<p>“Well, there it is,” said Teddy Weeks. “Take it or
leave it.”</p>
<p>“Gentlemen,” said Ukridge, “it would seem that the
company requires more capital. How about it, old horses?
Let’s get together in a frank, business-like cards-on-the-table
spirit, and see what can be done. I can raise ten
bob.”</p>
<p>“What!” cried the entire assembled company, amazed.
“How?”</p>
<p>“I’ll pawn a banjo.”</p>
<p>“You haven’t got a banjo.”</p>
<p>“No, but George Tupper has, and I know where he
keeps it.”</p>
<p>Started in this spirited way, the subscriptions came
pouring in. I contributed a cigarette-case, Bertram Fox
thought his landlady would let him owe for another week,
Robert Dunhill had an uncle in Kensington who, he fancied,
if tactfully approached, would be good for a quid, and
Victor Beamish said that if the advertisement-manager of
the O-So-Eesi Piano-Player was churlish enough to refuse
an advance of five shillings against future work he misjudged
him sadly. Within a few minutes, in short, the
Lightning Drive had produced the impressive total of two
pounds six shillings, and we asked Teddy Weeks if he
thought that he could get adequately keyed up within the
limits of that sum.</p>
<p>“I’ll try,” said Teddy Weeks.</p>
<p>So, not unmindful of the fact that that excellent
hostelry supplied champagne at eight shillings the
quart bottle, we fixed the meeting for seven o’clock at
Barolini’s.</p>
<p>Considered as a social affair, Teddy Weeks’s keying-up
dinner was not a success. Almost from the start I think
we all found it trying. It was not so much the fact that
he was drinking deeply of Barolini’s eight-shilling champagne
while we, from lack of funds, were compelled to confine
ourselves to meaner beverages; what really marred
the pleasantness of the function was the extraordinary
effect the stuff had on Teddy. What was actually in the
champagne supplied to Barolini and purveyed by him to
the public, such as were reckless enough to drink it, at
eight shillings the bottle remains a secret between its maker
and his Maker; but three glasses of it were enough to
convert Teddy Weeks from a mild and rather oily young
man into a truculent swashbuckler.</p>
<p>He quarrelled with us all. With the soup he was tilting
at Victor Beamish’s theories of Art; the fish found him
ridiculing Bertram Fox’s views on the future of the motion-picture;
and by the time the leg of chicken with dandelion
salad arrived—or, as some held, string salad—opinions
varied on this point—the hell-brew had so wrought on him
that he had begun to lecture Ukridge on his mis-spent life
and was urging him in accents audible across the street to
go out and get a job and thus acquire sufficient self-respect
to enable him to look himself in the face in a mirror without
wincing. Not, added Teddy Weeks with what we all
thought uncalled-for offensiveness, that any amount of self-respect
was likely to do that. Having said which, he called
imperiously for another eight bobs’-worth.</p>
<p>We gazed at one another wanly. However excellent the
end towards which all this was tending, there was no denying
that it was hard to bear. But policy kept us silent.
We recognised that this was Teddy Weeks’s evening and that
he must be humoured. Victor Beamish said meekly that
Teddy had cleared up a lot of points which had been troubling
him for a long time. Bertram Fox agreed that there
was much in what Teddy had said about the future of the
close-up. And even Ukridge, though his haughty soul was
seared to its foundations by the latter’s personal remarks,
promised to take his homily to heart and act upon it at the
earliest possible moment.</p>
<p>“You’d better!” said Teddy Weeks, belligerently, biting
off the end of one of Barolini’s best cigars. “And there’s
another thing—don’t let me hear of your coming and sneaking
people’s socks again.”</p>
<p>“Very well, laddie,” said Ukridge, humbly.</p>
<p>“If there is one person in the world that I despise,” said
Teddy, bending a red-eyed gaze on the offender, “it’s a
snock-seeker—a seek-snocker—a—well, you know what I
mean.”</p>
<p>We hastened to assure him that we knew what he meant
and he relapsed into a lengthy stupor, from which he
emerged three-quarters of an hour later to announce that
he didn’t know what we intended to do, but that he was
going. We said that we were going too, and we paid the
bill and did so.</p>
<p>Teddy Weeks’s indignation on discovering us gathered
about him upon the pavement outside the restaurant was
intense, and he expressed it freely. Among other things,
he said—which was not true—that he had a reputation to
keep up in Soho.</p>
<p>“It’s all right, Teddy, old horse,” said Ukridge, soothingly.
“We just thought you would like to have all your
old pals round you when you did it.”</p>
<p>“Did it? Did what?”</p>
<p>“Why, had the accident.”</p>
<p>Teddy Weeks glared at him truculently. Then his mood
seemed to change abruptly, and he burst into a loud and
hearty laugh.</p>
<p>“Well, of all the silly ideas!” he cried, amusedly. “I’m
not going to have an accident. You don’t suppose I ever
seriously intended to have an accident, do you? It was
just my fun.” Then, with another sudden change of mood,
he seemed to become a victim to an acute unhappiness. He
stroked Ukridge’s arm affectionately, and a tear rolled
down his cheek. “Just my fun,” he repeated. “You
don’t mind my fun, do you?” he asked, pleadingly. “You
like my fun, don’t you? All my fun. Never meant to
have an accident at all. Just wanted dinner.” The gay
humour of it all overcame his sorrow once more. “Funniest
thing ever heard,” he said cordially. “Didn’t want accident,
wanted dinner. Dinner daxident, danner dixident,”
he added, driving home his point. “Well, good night
all,” he said, cheerily. And, stepping off the kerb on
to a banana-skin, was instantly knocked ten feet by a
passing lorry.</p>
<p>“Two ribs and an arm,” said the doctor five minutes
later, superintending the removal proceedings. “Gently
with that stretcher.”</p>
<p>It was two weeks before we were informed by the authorities
of Charing Cross Hospital that the patient was in a
condition to receive visitors. A whip-round secured the
price of a basket of fruit, and Ukridge and I were deputed
by the shareholders to deliver it with their compliments
and kind enquiries.</p>
<p>“Hallo!” we said in a hushed, bedside manner when
finally admitted to his presence.</p>
<p>“Sit down, gentlemen,” replied the invalid.</p>
<p>I must confess even in that first moment to having
experienced a slight feeling of surprise. It was not like
Teddy Weeks to call us gentlemen. Ukridge, however,
seemed to notice nothing amiss.</p>
<p>“Well, well, well,” he said, buoyantly. “And how are
you, laddie? We’ve brought you a few fragments of
fruit.”</p>
<p>“I am getting along capitally,” replied Teddy Weeks,
still in that odd precise way which had made his opening
words strike me as curious. “And I should like to say
that in my opinion England has reason to be proud of the
alertness and enterprise of her great journals. The excellence
of their reading-matter, the ingenuity of their various
competitions, and, above all, the go-ahead spirit which has
resulted in this accident insurance scheme are beyond praise.
Have you got that down?” he enquired.</p>
<p>Ukridge and I looked at each other. We had been told
that Teddy was practically normal again, but this sounded
like delirium.</p>
<p>“Have we got that down, old horse?” asked Ukridge,
gently.</p>
<p>Teddy Weeks seemed surprised.</p>
<p>“Aren’t you reporters?”</p>
<p>“How do you mean, reporters?”</p>
<p>“I thought you had come from one of these weekly
papers that have been paying me insurance money, to
interview me,” said Teddy Weeks.</p>
<p>Ukridge and I exchanged another glance. An uneasy
glance this time. I think that already a grim foreboding
had begun to cast its shadow over us.</p>
<p>“Surely you remember me, Teddy, old horse?” said
Ukridge, anxiously.</p>
<p>Teddy Weeks knit his brow, concentrating painfully.</p>
<p>“Why, of course,” he said at last. “You’re Ukridge,
aren’t you?”</p>
<p>“That’s right. Ukridge.”</p>
<p>“Of course. Ukridge.”</p>
<p>“Yes. Ukridge. Funny your forgetting me!”</p>
<p>“Yes,” said Teddy Weeks. “It’s the effect of the shock
I got when that thing bowled me over. I must have been
struck on the head, I suppose. It has had the effect of
rendering my memory rather uncertain. The doctors here
are very interested. They say it is a most unusual case.
I can remember some things perfectly, but in some ways my
memory is a complete blank.”</p>
<p>“Oh, but I say, old horse,” quavered Ukridge. “I suppose
you haven’t forgotten about that insurance, have you?”</p>
<p>“Oh, no, I remember that.”</p>
<p>Ukridge breathed a relieved sigh.</p>
<p>“I was a subscriber to a number of weekly papers,” went
on Teddy Weeks. “They are paying me insurance money
now.”</p>
<p>“Yes, yes, old horse,” cried Ukridge. “But what I
mean is you remember the Syndicate, don’t you?”</p>
<p>Teddy Weeks raised his eyebrows.</p>
<p>“Syndicate? What Syndicate?”</p>
<p>“Why, when we all got together and put up the money
to pay for the subscriptions to these papers and drew lots,
to choose which of us should go out and have an accident
and collect the money. And you drew it, don’t you
remember?”</p>
<p>Utter astonishment, and a shocked astonishment at that,
spread itself over Teddy Weeks’s countenance. The man
seemed outraged.</p>
<p>“I certainly remember nothing of the kind,” he said,
severely. “I cannot imagine myself for a moment consenting
to become a party to what from your own account
would appear to have been a criminal conspiracy to obtain
money under false pretences from a number of weekly
papers.”</p>
<p>“But, laddie——”</p>
<p>“However,” said Teddy Weeks, “if there is any truth in
this story, no doubt you have documentary evidence to
support it.”</p>
<p>Ukridge looked at me. I looked at Ukridge. There
was a long silence.</p>
<p>“Shift-ho, old horse?” said Ukridge, sadly. “No use
staying on here.”</p>
<p>“No,” I replied, with equal gloom. “May as well go.”</p>
<p>“Glad to have seen you,” said Teddy Weeks, “and
thanks for the fruit.”</p>
<p>The next time I saw the man he was coming out of a
manager’s office in the Haymarket. He had on a new
Homburg hat of a delicate pearl grey, spats to match, and
a new blue flannel suit, beautifully cut, with an invisible red
twill. He was looking jubilant, and; as I passed him, he
drew from his pocket a gold cigarette-case.</p>
<p>It was shortly after that, if you remember, that he
made a big hit as the juvenile lead in that piece at the
Apollo and started on his sensational career as a <i>matinee</i>
idol.</p>
<p>Inside the church the organ had swelled into the familiar
music of the Wedding March. A verger came out and
opened the doors. The five cooks ceased their reminiscences
of other and smarter weddings at which they had participated.
The camera-men unshipped their cameras. The
costermonger moved his barrow of vegetables a pace forward.
A dishevelled and unshaven man at my side uttered
a disapproving growl.</p>
<p>“Idle rich!” said the dishevelled man.</p>
<p>Out of the church came a beauteous being, leading
attached to his arm another being, somewhat less beauteous.</p>
<p>There was no denying the spectacular effect of Teddy
Weeks. He was handsomer than ever. His sleek hair, gorgeously
waved, shone in the sun, his eyes were large and
bright; his lissome frame, garbed in faultless morning-coat
and trousers, was that of an Apollo. But his bride gave
the impression that Teddy had married money. They
paused in the doorway, and the camera-men became active
and fussy.</p>
<p>“Have you got a shilling, laddie?” said Ukridge in a
low, level voice.</p>
<p>“Why do you want a shilling?”</p>
<p>“Old horse,” said Ukridge, tensely, “it is of the
utmost vital importance that I have a shilling here and
now.”</p>
<p>I passed it over. Ukridge turned to the dishevelled man,
and I perceived that he held in his hand a large rich tomato
of juicy and over-ripe appearance.</p>
<p>“Would you like to earn a bob?” Ukridge said.</p>
<p>“Would I!” replied the dishevelled man.</p>
<p>Ukridge sank his voice to a hoarse whisper.</p>
<p>The camera-men had finished their preparations. Teddy
Weeks, his head thrown back in that gallant way which has
endeared him to so many female hearts, was exhibiting
his celebrated teeth. The cooks, in undertones, were making
adverse comments on the appearance of the bride.</p>
<p>“Now, please,” said one of the camera-men.</p>
<p>Over the heads of the crowd, well and truly aimed,
whizzed a large juicy tomato. It burst like a shell full
between Teddy Weeks’s expressive eyes, obliterating them
in scarlet ruin. It spattered Teddy Weeks’s collar, it
dripped on Teddy Weeks’s morning-coat. And the dishevelled
man turned abruptly and raced off down the
street.</p>
<p>Ukridge grasped my arm. There was a look of deep
content in his eyes.</p>
<p>“Shift-ho?” said Ukridge.</p>
<p>Arm-in-arm, we strolled off in the pleasant June sunshine.</p>
<h2 id="CH3">  CHAPTER III </h2>
<div class="chtitle">  THE DÉBUT OF BATTLING BILLSON </div>
<p>It becomes increasingly difficult, I have found, as
time goes by, to recall the exact circumstances in
which one first became acquainted with this man
or that; for as a general thing I lay no claim to
the possession of one of those hair-trigger memories which
come from subscribing to the correspondence courses
advertised in the magazines. And yet I can state without
doubt or hesitation that the individual afterwards known
as Battling Billson entered my life at half-past four on
the afternoon of Saturday, September the tenth, two
days after my twenty-seventh birthday. For there was
that about my first sight of him which has caused the
event to remain photographically lined on the tablets of
my mind when a yesterday has faded from its page. Not
only was our meeting dramatic and even startling, but
it had in it something of the quality of the last straw, the
final sling or arrow of outrageous Fortune. It seemed to
put the lid on the sadness of life.</p>
<p>Everything had been going steadily wrong with me
for more than a week. I had been away, paying a duty
visit to uncongenial relatives in the country, and it had
rained and rained and rained. There had been family
prayers before breakfast and bezique after dinner. On the
journey back to London my carriage had been full of
babies, the train had stopped everywhere, and I had had
nothing to eat but a bag of buns. And when finally I let
myself into my lodgings in Ebury Street and sought the
soothing haven of my sitting-room, the first thing I saw
on opening the door was this enormous red-headed man
lying on the sofa.</p>
<p>He made no move as I came in, for he was asleep; and
I can best convey the instantaneous impression I got of
his formidable physique by saying that I had no desire to
wake him. The sofa was a small one, and he overflowed
it in every direction. He had a broken nose, and his jaw
was the jaw of a Wild West motion-picture star registering
Determination. One hand was under his head; the
other, hanging down to the floor, looked like a strayed
ham congealed into stone. What he was doing in my
sitting-room I did not know; but, passionately as I wished
to know, I preferred not to seek first-hand information.
There was something about him that seemed to suggest
that he might be one of those men who are rather cross
when they first wake up. I crept out and stole softly
downstairs to make enquiries of Bowles, my landlord.</p>
<p>“Sir?” said Bowles, in his fruity ex-butler way,
popping up from the depths accompanied by a rich smell
of finnan haddie.</p>
<p>“There’s someone in my room,” I whispered.</p>
<p>“That would be Mr. Ukridge, sir.”</p>
<p>“It wouldn’t be anything of the kind,” I replied, with
asperity. I seldom had the courage to contradict Bowles,
but this statement was so wildly inaccurate that I could
not let it pass. “It’s a huge red-headed man.”</p>
<p>“Mr. Ukridge’s friend, sir. He joined Mr. Ukridge
here yesterday.”</p>
<p>“How do you mean, joined Mr. Ukridge here yesterday?”</p>
<p>“Mr. Ukridge came to occupy your rooms in your
absence, sir, on the night after your departure. I assumed
that he had your approval. He said, if I remember
correctly, that ‘it would be all right.’”</p>
<p>For some reason or other which I had never been able to
explain, Bowles’s attitude towards Ukridge from their
first meeting had been that of an indulgent father towards
a favourite son. He gave the impression now of congratulating
me on having such a friend to rally round
and sneak into my rooms when I went away.</p>
<p>“Would there be anything further, sir?” enquired
Bowles, with a wistful half-glance over his shoulder. He
seemed reluctant to tear himself away for long from the
finnan haddie.</p>
<p>“No,” I said. “Er—no. When do you expect Mr.
Ukridge back?”</p>
<p>“Mr. Ukridge informed me that he would return for
dinner, sir. Unless he has altered his plans, he is now at
a <i>matinée</i> performance at the Gaiety Theatre.”</p>
<p>The audience was just beginning to leave when I reached
the Gaiety. I waited in the Strand, and presently was
rewarded by the sight of a yellow mackintosh working its
way through the crowd.</p>
<p>“Hallo, laddie!” said Stanley Featherstonehaugh
Ukridge, genially. “When did you get back? I say, I
want you to remember this tune, so that you can remind
me of it to-morrow, when I’ll be sure to have forgotten it.
This is how it goes.” He poised himself flat-footedly in
the surging tide of pedestrians and, shutting his eyes and
raising his chin, began to yodel in a loud and dismal
tenor. “Tumty-tumty-tumty-tum, tum tum tum,” he
concluded. “And now, old horse, you may lead me across
the street to the Coal Hole for a short snifter. What
sort of a time have you had?”</p>
<p>“Never mind what sort of a time I’ve had. Who’s
the fellow you’ve dumped down in my rooms?</p>
<p>“Red-haired man?”</p>
<p>“Good Lord! Surely even you wouldn’t inflict more
than one on me?”</p>
<p>Ukridge looked at me a little pained.</p>
<p>“I don’t like this tone,” he said, leading me down the
steps of the Coal Hole. “Upon my Sam, your manner
wounds me, old horse. I little thought that you would
object to your best friend laying his head on your pillow.”</p>
<p>“I don’t mind your head. At least I do, but I suppose
I’ve got to put up with it. But when it comes to your
taking in lodgers——”</p>
<p>“Order two tawny ports, laddie,” said Ukridge, “and
I’ll explain all about that. I had an idea all along that
you would want to know. It’s like this,” he proceeded,
when the tawny ports had arrived. “That bloke’s going
to make my everlasting fortune.”</p>
<p>“Well, can’t he do it somewhere else except in my
sitting-room?”</p>
<p>“You know me, old horse,” said Ukridge, sipping
luxuriously. “Keen, alert, far-sighted. Brain never
still. Always getting ideas—<i>bing</i>—like a flash. The
other day I was in a pub down Chelsea way having a bit
of bread and cheese, and a fellow came in smothered with
jewels. Smothered, I give you my word. Rings on his
fingers and a tie-pin you could have lit your cigar at. I
made enquiries and found that he was Tod Bingham’s
manager.”</p>
<p>“Who’s Tod Bingham?”</p>
<p>“My dear old son, you must have heard of Tod Bingham.
The new middle-weight champion. Beat Alf
Palmer for the belt a couple of weeks ago. And this
bloke, as opulent-looking a bloke as ever I saw, was his
manager. I suppose he gets about fifty per cent. of
everything Tod makes, and you know the sort of purses
they give for big fights nowadays. And then there’s
music-hall tours and the movies and all that. Well, I
see no reason why, putting the thing at the lowest figures,
I shouldn’t scoop in thousands. I got the idea two seconds
after they told me who this fellow was. And what made
the thing seem almost as if it was meant to be was the
coincidence that I should have heard only that morning
that the <i>Hyacinth</i> was in.”</p>
<p>The man seemed to me to be rambling. In my reduced
and afflicted state his cryptic method of narrative irritated
me.</p>
<p>“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” I said.
“What’s the <i>Hyacinth</i>? In where?”</p>
<p>“Pull yourself together, old horse,” said Ukridge, with
the air of one endeavouring to be patient with a half-witted
child. “You remember the <i>Hyacinth</i>, the tramp steamer
I took that trip on a couple of years ago. Many’s the
time I’ve told you all about the <i>Hyacinth.</i> She docked in
the Port of London the night before I met this opulent
bloke, and I had been meaning to go down next day and
have a chat with the lads. The fellow you found in your
rooms is one of the trimmers. As decent a bird as ever
you met. Not much conversation, but a heart of gold.
And it came across me like a thunderbolt the moment
they told me who the jewelled cove was that, if I could
only induce this man Billson to take up scrapping seriously,
with me as his manager, my fortune was made. Billson
is the man who invented fighting.”</p>
<p>“He looks it.”</p>
<p>“Splendid chap—you’ll like him.”</p>
<p>“I bet I shall. I made up my mind to like him the
moment I saw him.”</p>
<p>“Never picks a quarrel, you understand—in fact, used
to need the deuce of a lot of provocation before he would
give of his best; but once he started—golly! I’ve seen
that man clean out a bar at Marseilles in a way that
fascinated you. A bar filled to overflowing with A.B.’s
and firemen, mind you, and all capable of felling oxen
with a blow. Six of them there were, and they kept
swatting Billson with all the vim and heartiness at their
disposal, but he just let them bounce off, and went on
with the business in hand. The man’s a champion,
laddie, nothing less. You couldn’t hurt him with a
hatchet, and every time he hits anyone all the undertakers
in the place jump up and make bids for the body. And
the amazing bit of luck is that he was looking for a job
ashore. It appears he’s fallen in love with one of the
barmaids at the Crown in Kennington. Not,” said
Ukridge, so that all misapprehension should be avoided,
“the one with the squint. The other one. Flossie.
The girl with yellow hair.”</p>
<p>“I don’t know the barmaids at the Crown in Kennington,”
I said.</p>
<p>“Nice girls,” said Ukridge, paternally. “So it was all
right, you see. Our interests were identical. Good old
Billson isn’t what you’d call a very intelligent chap, but
I managed to make him understand after an hour or so,
and we drew up the contract. I’m to get fifty per cent.
of everything in consideration of managing him, fixing
up fights, and looking after him generally.”</p>
<p>“And looking after him includes tucking him up on
my sofa and singing him to sleep?”</p>
<p>Again that pained look came into Ukridge’s face. He
gazed at me as if I had disappointed him.</p>
<p>“You keep harping on that, laddie, and it isn’t the
right spirit. Anyone would think that we had polluted
your damned room.”</p>
<p>“Well, you must admit that having this coming champion
of yours in the home is going to make things a bit
crowded.”</p>
<p>“Don’t worry about that, my dear old man,” said
Ukridge, reassuringly. “We move to the White Hart
at Barnes to-morrow, to start training. I’ve got Billson
an engagement in one of the preliminaries down at
Wonderland two weeks from to-night.”</p>
<p>“No; really?” I said, impressed by this enterprise.
“How did you manage it?”</p>
<p>“I just took him along and showed him to the management.
They jumped at him. You see, the old boy’s
appearance rather speaks for itself. Thank goodness, all
this happened just when I had a few quid tucked away.
By the greatest good luck I ran into George Tupper at
the very moment when he had had word that they were
going to make him an under-secretary or something—I
can’t remember the details, but it’s something they give
these Foreign Office blokes when they show a bit of class—and
Tuppy parted with a tenner without a murmur.
Seemed sort of dazed. I believe now I could have had
twenty if I’d had the presence of mind to ask for it.
Still,” said Ukridge, with a manly resignation which did
him credit, “it can’t be helped now, and ten will see me
through. The only thing that’s worrying me at the
moment is what to call Billson.”</p>
<p>“Yes, I should be careful what I called a man like
that.”</p>
<p>“I mean, what name is he to fight under?”</p>
<p>“Why not his own?”</p>
<p>“His parents, confound them,” said Ukridge, moodily,
“christened him Wilberforce. I ask you, can you see the
crowd at Wonderland having Wilberforce Billson introduced
to them?”</p>
<p>“Willie Billson,” I suggested. “Rather snappy.”</p>
<p>Ukridge considered the proposal seriously, with knit
brows, as becomes a manager.</p>
<p>“Too frivolous,” he decided at length. “Might be
all right for a bantam, but—no, I don’t like it. I was
thinking of something like Hurricane Hicks or Rock-Crusher
Riggs.”</p>
<p>“Don’t do it,” I urged, “or you’ll kill his career right
from the start. You never find a real champion with one
of these fancy names. Bob Fitzsimmons, Jack Johnson,
James J. Corbett, James J. Jeffries——”</p>
<p>“James J. Billson?”</p>
<p>“Rotten.”</p>
<p>“You don’t think,” said Ukridge, almost with timidity,
“that Wildcat Wix might do?”</p>
<p>“No fighter with an adjective in front of his name ever
boxed in anything except a three-round preliminary.”</p>
<p>“How about Battling Billson?”</p>
<p>I patted him on the shoulder.</p>
<p>“Go no farther,” I said. “The thing is settled.
Battling Billson is the name.”</p>
<p>“Laddie,” said Ukridge in a hushed voice, reaching
across the table and grasping my hand, “this is genius.
Sheer genius. Order another couple of tawny ports, old
man.”</p>
<p>I did so, and we drank deep to the Battler’s success.</p>
<p>My formal introduction to my godchild took place on
our return to Ebury Street, and—great as had been my
respect for the man before—it left me with a heightened
appreciation of the potentialities for triumph awaiting
him in his selected profession. He was awake by this
time and moving ponderously about the sitting-room, and
he looked even more impressive standing than he had
appeared when lying down. At our first meeting, moreover,
his eyes had been closed in sleep; they were now
open, green in colour, and of a peculiarly metallic glint
which caused them, as we shook hands, to seem to be
exploring my person for good spots to hit. What was
probably intended to be the smile that wins appeared to
me a grim and sardonic twist of the lip. Take him for
all in all, I had never met a man so calculated to convert
the most truculent swashbuckler to pacifism at a glance;
and when I recalled Ukridge’s story of the little unpleasantness
at Marseilles and realised that a mere handful
of half a dozen able-bodied seamen had had the temerity
to engage this fellow in personal conflict, it gave me a
thrill of patriotic pride. There must be good stuff in the
British Merchant Marine, I felt. Hearts of oak.</p>
<p>Dinner, which followed the introduction, revealed the
Battler rather as a capable trencherman than as a sparkling
conversationalist. His long reach enabled him to
grab salt, potatoes, pepper, and other necessaries without
the necessity of asking for them; and on other topics he
seemed to possess no views which he deemed worthy of
exploitation. A strong, silent man.</p>
<p>That there was a softer side to his character was, however,
made clear to me when, after smoking one of my
cigars and talking for awhile of this and that, Ukridge
went out on one of those mysterious errands of his which
were always summoning him at all hours and left my guest
and myself alone together. After a bare half-hour’s
silence, broken only by the soothing gurgle of his pipe,
the coming champion cocked an intimidating eye at me
and spoke.</p>
<p>“You ever been in love, mister?”</p>
<p>I was thrilled and flattered. Something in my appearance,
I told myself, some nebulous something that showed
me a man of sentiment and sympathy, had appealed to
this man, and he was about to pour out his heart in
intimate confession. I said yes, I had been in love many
times. I went on to speak of love as a noble emotion of
which no man need be ashamed. I spoke at length and
with fervour.</p>
<p>“R!” said Battling Billson.</p>
<p>Then, as if aware that he had been chattering in an
undignified manner to a comparative stranger, he withdrew
into the silence again and did not emerge till it was
time to go to bed, when he said “Good night, mister,”
and disappeared. It was disappointing. Significant,
perhaps, the conversation had been, but I had been rather
hoping for something which could have been built up into
a human document, entitled “The Soul of the Abysmal
Brute,” and sold to some editor for that real money which
was always so badly needed in the home.</p>
<p>Ukridge and his <i>protégé</i> left next morning for Barnes,
and, as that riverside resort was somewhat off my beat,
I saw no more of the Battler until the fateful night at
Wonderland. From time to time Ukridge would drop in
at my rooms to purloin cigars and socks, and on these
occasions he always spoke with the greatest confidence of
his man’s prospects. At first, it seemed, there had been
a little difficulty owing to the other’s rooted idea that
plug tobacco was an indispensable adjunct to training:
but towards the end of the first week the arguments of
wisdom had prevailed and he had consented to abandon
smoking until after his début. By this concession the
issue seemed to Ukridge to have been sealed as a certainty,
and he was in sunny mood as he borrowed the money from
me to pay our fares to the Underground station at which
the pilgrim alights who wishes to visit that Mecca of East-end
boxing, Wonderland.</p>
<p>The Battler had preceded us, and when we arrived was
in the dressing-room, stripped to a breath-taking semi-nudity.
I had not supposed that it was possible for a
man to be larger than was Mr. Billson when arrayed for
the street, but in trunks and boxing shoes he looked like
his big brother. Muscles resembling the hawsers of an
Atlantic liner coiled down his arms and rippled along his
massive shoulders. He seemed to dwarf altogether the
by no means flimsy athlete who passed out of the room
as we came in.</p>
<p>“That’s the bloke,” announced Mr. Billson, jerking his
red head after this person.</p>
<p>We understood him to imply that the other was his
opponent, and the spirit of confidence which had animated
us waxed considerably. Where six of the pick of the
Merchant Marine had failed, this stripling could scarcely
hope to succeed.</p>
<p>“I been talkin’ to ’im,” said Battling Billson.</p>
<p>I took this unwonted garrulity to be due to a slight
nervousness natural at such a moment.</p>
<p>“’E’s ’ad a lot of trouble, that bloke,” said the Battler.</p>
<p>The obvious reply was that he was now going to have
a lot more, but before either of us could make it a hoarse
voice announced that Squiffy and the Toff had completed
their three-round bout and that the stage now waited for
our nominee. We hurried to our seats. The necessity of
taking a look at our man in his dressing-room had deprived
us of the pleasure of witnessing the passage of arms
between Squiffy and the Toff, but I gathered that it must
have been lively and full of entertainment, for the audience
seemed in excellent humour. All those who were not too
busy eating jellied eels were babbling happily or whistling
between their fingers to friends in distant parts of
the hall. As Mr. Billson climbed into the ring in all the
glory of his red hair and jumping muscles, the babble
rose to a roar. It was plain that Wonderland had stamped
our Battler with its approval on sight.</p>
<p>The audiences which support Wonderland are not
disdainful of science. Neat footwork wins their commendation,
and a skilful ducking of the head is greeted
with knowing applause. But what they esteem most
highly is the punch. And one sight of Battling Billson
seemed to tell them that here was the Punch personified.
They sent the fighters off to a howl of ecstasy, and settled
back in their seats to enjoy the pure pleasure of seeing two
of their fellow-men hitting each other very hard and often.</p>
<p>The howl died away.</p>
<p>I looked at Ukridge with concern. Was this the hero
of Marseilles, the man who cleaned out bar-rooms and on
whom undertakers fawned? Diffident was the only
word to describe our Battler’s behaviour in that opening
round. He pawed lightly at his antagonist. He embraced
him like a brother. He shuffled about the ring, innocuous.</p>
<p>“What’s the matter with him?” I asked.</p>
<p>“He always starts slow,” said Ukridge, but his concern
was manifest. He fumbled nervously at the buttons of
his mackintosh. The referee was warning Battling Billson,
He was speaking to him like a disappointed father. In
the cheaper and baser parts of the house enraged citizens
were whistling “Comrades.” Everywhere a chill had
fallen on the house. That first fine fresh enthusiasm had
died away, and the sounding of the gong for the end of
the round was greeted with censorious cat-calls. As
Mr. Billson lurched back to his corner, frank unfriendliness
was displayed on all sides.</p>
<p>With the opening of the second round considerably
more spirit was introduced into the affair. The same
strange torpidity still held our Battler in its grip, but his
opponent was another man. During round one he had
seemed a little nervous and apprehensive. He had
behaved as if he considered it prudent not to stir Mr.
Billson. But now this distaste for direct action had
left him. There was jauntiness in his demeanour as he
moved to the centre of the ring; and, having reached it,
he uncoiled a long left and smote Mr. Billson forcefully
on the nose. Twice he smote him, and twice Mr. Billson
blinked like one who has had bad news from home. The
man who had had a lot of trouble leaned sideways and
brought his right fist squarely against the Battler’s ear.</p>
<p>All was forgotten and forgiven. A moment before the
audience had been solidly anti-Billson. Now they were
as unanimously pro. For these blows, while they
appeared to have affected him not at all physically,
seemed to have awakened Mr. Billson’s better feelings
as if somebody had turned on a tap. They had aroused
in Mr. Billson’s soul that zest for combat which had been
so sadly to seek in round one. For an instant after the
receipt of that buffet on the ear the Battler stood motionless
on his flat feet, apparently in deep thought. Then,
with the air of one who has suddenly remembered an
important appointment, he plunged forward. Like an
animated windmill he cast himself upon the bloke of
troubles. He knocked him here, he bounced him there.
He committed mayhem upon his person. He did everything
to him that a man can do who is hampered with
boxing-gloves, until presently the troubled one was
leaning heavily against the ropes, his head hanging
dazedly, his whole attitude that of a man who would just
as soon let the matter drop. It only remained for the
Battler to drive home the final punch, and a hundred
enthusiasts, rising to their feet, were pointing out to him
desirable locations for it.</p>
<p>But once more that strange diffidence had descended
upon our representative. While every other man in the
building seemed to know the correct procedure and was
sketching it out in nervous English, Mr. Billson appeared
the victim of doubt. He looked uncertainly at his opponent
and enquiringly at the referee.</p>
<p>The referee, obviously a man of blunted sensibilities,
was unresponsive. Do It Now was plainly his slogan.
He was a business man, and he wanted his patrons to get
good value for their money. He was urging Mr. Billson
to make a thorough job of it. And finally Mr. Billson
approached his man and drew back his right arm. Having
done this, he looked over his shoulder once more at the
referee.</p>
<p>It was a fatal blunder. The man who had had a lot
of trouble may have been in poor shape, but, like most of
his profession, he retained, despite his recent misadventures,
a reserve store of energy. Even as Mr. Billson turned his
head, he reached down to the floor with his gloved right
hand, then, with a final effort, brought it up in a majestic
sweep against the angle of the other’s jaw. And then,
as the fickle audience, with swift change of sympathy,
cheered him on, he buried his left in Mr. Billson’s stomach
on the exact spot where the well-dressed man wears the
third button of his waistcoat.</p>
<p>Of all human experiences this of being smitten in this
precise locality is the least agreeable. Battling Billson
drooped like a stricken flower, settled slowly down, and
spread himself out. He lay peacefully on his back with
outstretched arms like a man floating in smooth water.
His day’s work was done.</p>
<p>A wailing cry rose above the din of excited patrons of
sport endeavouring to explain to their neighbours how
it had all happened. It was the voice of Ukridge mourning
over his dead.</p>
<p>At half-past eleven that night, as I was preparing for
bed, a drooping figure entered my room. I mixed a
silent, sympathetic Scotch and soda, and for awhile no
word was spoken.</p>
<p>“How is the poor fellow?” I asked at length.</p>
<p>“He’s all right,” said Ukridge, listlessly. “I left him
eating fish and chips at a coffee-stall.”</p>
<p>“Bad luck his getting pipped on the post like that.”</p>
<p>“Bad luck!” boomed Ukridge, throwing off his
lethargy with a vigour that spoke of mental anguish.
“What do you mean, bad luck? It was just dam’ bone-headedness.
Upon my Sam, it’s a little hard. I invest
vast sums in this man, I support him in luxury for two
weeks, asking nothing of him in return except to sail in
and knock somebody’s head off, which he could have done
in two minutes if he had liked, and he lets me down purely
and simply because the other fellow told him that he had
been up all night looking after his wife who had burned
her hand at the jam factory. Inferanal sentimentalism!”</p>
<p>“Does him credit,” I argued.</p>
<p>“Bah!”</p>
<p>“Kind hearts,” I urged, “are more than coronets.”</p>
<p>“Who the devil wants a pugilist to have a kind heart?
What’s the use of this man Billson being able to knock
out an elephant if he’s afflicted with this damned maudlin
mushiness? Who ever heard of a mushy pugilist? It’s
the wrong spirit. It doesn’t make for success.”</p>
<p>“It’s a handicap, of course,” I admitted.</p>
<p>“What guarantee have I,” demanded Ukridge, “that
if I go to enormous trouble and expense getting him
another match, he won’t turn aside and brush away a
silent tear in the first round because he’s heard that the
blighter’s wife has got an ingrowing toenail?”</p>
<p>“You could match him only against bachelors.”</p>
<p>“Yes, and the first bachelor he met would draw him
into a corner and tell him his aunt was down with
whooping-cough, and the chump would heave a sigh
and stick his chin out to be walloped. A fellow’s got no
business to have red hair if he isn’t going to live up to it.
And yet,” said Ukridge, wistfully, “I’ve seen that man—it
was in a dance-hall at Naples—I’ve seen him take on
at least eleven Italians simultaneously. But then, one
of them had stuck a knife about three inches into his
leg. He seems to need something like that to give him
ambition.”</p>
<p>“I don’t see how you are going to arrange to have him
knifed just before each fight.”</p>
<p>“No,” said Ukridge, mournfully.</p>
<p>“What are you going to do about his future? Have
you any plans?”</p>
<p>“Nothing definite. My aunt was looking for a companion
to attend to her correspondence and take care of
the canary last time I saw her. I might try to get the
job for him.”</p>
<p>And with a horrid, mirthless laugh. Stanley Featherstonehaugh
Ukridge borrowed five shillings and passed
out into the night.</p>
<p>I did not see Ukridge for the next few days, but I had
news of him from our mutual friend George Tupper, whom
I met prancing in uplifted mood down Whitehall.</p>
<p>“I say,” said George Tupper without preamble, and
with a sort of dazed fervour, “they’ve given me an under-secretaryship.”</p>
<p>I pressed his hand. I would have slapped him on the
back, but one does not slap the backs of eminent Foreign
Office officials in Whitehall in broad daylight, even if one
has been at school with them.</p>
<p>“Congratulations,” I said. “There is no one whom I
would more gladly see under-secretarying. I heard
rumours of this from Ukridge.”</p>
<p>“Oh, yes, I remember I told him it might be coming
off. Good old Ukridge! I met him just now and told
him the news, and he was delighted.”</p>
<p>“How much did he touch you for?”</p>
<p>“Eh? Oh, only five pounds. Till Saturday. He
expects to have a lot of money by then.”</p>
<p>“Did you ever know the time when Ukridge didn’t
expect to have a lot of money?”</p>
<p>“I want you and Ukridge to come and have a bit of
dinner with me to celebrate. How would Wednesday
suit you?”</p>
<p>“Splendidly.”</p>
<p>“Seven-thirty at the Regent Grill, then. Will you tell
Ukridge?”</p>
<p>“I don’t know where he’s got to. I haven’t seen him
for nearly a week. Did he tell you where he was?”</p>
<p>“Out at some place at Barnes. What was the name
of it?”</p>
<p>“The White Hart?”</p>
<p>“That’s it.”</p>
<p>“Tell me,” I said, “how did he seem? Cheerful?”</p>
<p>“Very. Why?”</p>
<p>“The last time I saw him he was thinking of giving
up the struggle. He had had reverses.”</p>
<p>I proceeded to the White Hart immediately after lunch.
The fact that Ukridge was still at that hostelry and had
regained his usual sunny outlook on life seemed to point
to the fact that the clouds enveloping the future of Mr.
Billson had cleared away, and that the latter’s hat was
still in the ring. That this was so was made clear to me
directly I arrived. Enquiring for my old friend, I was
directed to an upper room, from which, as I approached,
there came a peculiar thudding noise. It was caused, as
I perceived on opening the door, by Mr. Billson. Clad in
flannel trousers and a sweater, he was earnestly pounding
a large leather object suspended from a wooden platform.
His manager, seated on a soap-box in a corner, regarded
him the while with affectionate proprietorship.</p>
<p>“Hallo, old horse!” said Ukridge, rising as I entered.
“Glad to see you.”</p>
<p>The din of Mr. Billson’s bag-punching, from which my
arrival had not caused him to desist, was such as to render
conversation difficult. We moved to the quieter retreat
of the bar downstairs, where I informed Ukridge of the
under-secretary’s invitation.</p>
<p>“I’ll be there,” said Ukridge. “There’s one thing
about good old Billson, you can trust him not to break
training if you take your eye off him. And, of course, he
realises that this is a big thing. It’ll be the making of
him.”</p>
<p>“Your aunt is considering engaging him, then?”</p>
<p>“My aunt? What on earth are you talking about?
Collect yourself, laddie.”</p>
<p>“When you left me you were going to try to get him
the job of looking after your aunt’s canary.”</p>
<p>“Oh, I was feeling rather sore then. That’s all over.
I had an earnest talk with the poor zimp, and he means
business from now on. And so he ought to, dash it, with
a magnificent opportunity like this.”</p>
<p>“Like what?”</p>
<p>“We’re on to a big thing now, laddie, the dickens of a
big thing.”</p>
<p>“I hope you’ve made sure the other man’s a bachelor.
Who is he?”</p>
<p>“Tod Bingham.”</p>
<p>“Tod Bingham?” I groped in my memory. “You
don’t mean the middle-weight champion?”</p>
<p>“That’s the fellow.”</p>
<p>“You don’t expect me to believe that you’ve got a
match on with a champion already?”</p>
<p>“It isn’t exactly a match. It’s like this. Tod Bingham
is going round the East-end halls offering two hundred
quid to anyone who’ll stay four rounds with him. Advertisement
stuff. Good old Billson is going to unleash
himself at the Shoreditch Empire next Saturday.”</p>
<p>“Do you think he’ll be able to stay four rounds?”</p>
<p>“Stay four rounds!” cried Ukridge. “Why, he could
stay four rounds with a fellow armed with a Gatling-gun
and a couple of pickaxes. That money’s as good as in
our pockets, laddie. And once we’re through with this
job, there isn’t a boxing-place in England that won’t
jump at us. I don’t mind telling you in confidence, old
horse, that in a year from now I expect to be pulling in
hundreds a week. Clean up a bit here first, you know, and
then pop over to America and make an enormous fortune.
Damme, I shan’t know how to spend the money!”</p>
<p>“Why not buy some socks? I’m running a bit short
of them.”</p>
<p>“Now, laddie, laddie,” said Ukridge, reprovingly,
“need we strike a jarring note? Is this the moment to
fling your beastly socks in an old friend’s face? A
broader-minded spirit is what I would like to see.”</p>
<p>I was ten minutes late in arriving at the Regent Grill
on the Wednesday of George Tupper’s invitation, and the
spectacle of George in person standing bare-headed at
the Piccadilly entrance filled me with guilty remorse.
George was the best fellow in the world, but the atmosphere
of the Foreign Office had increased the tendency
he had always had from boyhood to a sort of precise
fussiness, and it upset him if his affairs did not run exactly
on schedule. The thought that my unpunctuality should
have marred this great evening sent me hurrying towards
him full of apologies.</p>
<p>“Oh, there you are,” said George Tupper. “I say,
it’s too bad——”</p>
<p>“I’m awfully sorry. My watch——”</p>
<p>“Ukridge!” cried George Tupper, and I perceived that
it was not I who had caused his concern.</p>
<p>“Isn’t he coming?” I asked, amazed. The idea of
Ukridge evading a free meal was one of those that seem to
make the solid foundations of the world rock.</p>
<p>“He’s come. And he’s brought a girl with him!”</p>
<p>“A <i>girl!</i>”</p>
<p>“In pink, with yellow hair,” wailed George Tupper.
“What am I to do?”</p>
<p>I pondered the point.</p>
<p>“It’s a weird thing for even Ukridge to have done,”
I said, “but I suppose you’ll have to give her dinner.”</p>
<p>“But the place is full of people I know, and this girl’s
so—so spectacular.”</p>
<p>I felt for him deeply, but I could see no way out of it.</p>
<p>“You don’t think I could say I had been taken ill?”</p>
<p>“It would hurt Ukridge’s feelings.”</p>
<p>“I should enjoy hurting Ukridge’s feelings, curse him!”
said George Tupper, fervently.</p>
<p>“And it would be an awful slam for the girl, whoever
she is.”</p>
<p>George Tupper sighed. His was a chivalrous nature. He
drew himself up as if bracing himself for a dreadful ordeal.</p>
<p>“Oh, well, I suppose there’s nothing to do,” he said.
“Come along. I left them drinking cocktails in the
lounge.”</p>
<p>George had not erred in describing Ukridge’s addition
to the festivities as spectacular. Flamboyant would have
been a suitable word. As she preceded us down the long
dining-room, her arm linked in George Tupper’s—she
seemed to have taken a liking to George—I had ample
opportunity for studying her, from her patent-leather
shoes to the mass of golden hair beneath her picture-hat.
She had a loud, clear voice, and she was telling George
Tupper the rather intimate details of an internal complaint
which had recently troubled an aunt of hers. If
George had been the family physician, she could not have
been franker; and I could see a dull glow spreading over
his shapely ears.</p>
<p>Perhaps Ukridge saw it, too, for he seemed to experience
a slight twinge of conscience.</p>
<p>“I have an idea, laddie,” he whispered, “that old
Tuppy is a trifle peeved at my bringing Flossie along.
If you get a chance, you might just murmur to him that
it was military necessity.”</p>
<p>“Who is she?” I asked.</p>
<p>“I told you about her. Flossie, the barmaid at the
Crown in Kennington. Billson’s <i>fiancée.</i>”</p>
<p>I looked at him in amazement.</p>
<p>“Do you mean to tell me that you’re courting death
by flirting with Battling Billson’s girl?”</p>
<p>“My dear old man, nothing like that,” said Ukridge,
shocked. “The whole thing is, I’ve got a particular
favour to ask of her—rather a rummy request—and it
was no good springing it on her in cold blood. There
had to be a certain amount of champagne in advance,
and my funds won’t run to champagne. I’m taking her
on to the Alhambra after dinner. I’ll look you up to-night
and tell you all about it.”</p>
<p>We then proceeded to dine. It was not one of the
pleasantest meals of my experience. The future Mrs.
Billson prattled agreeably throughout, and Ukridge
assisted her in keeping the conversation alive; but the
shattered demeanour of George Tupper would have taken
the sparkle out of any banquet. From time to time he
pulled himself together and endeavoured to play the host,
but for the most part he maintained a pale and brooding
silence; and it was a relief when Ukridge and his companion
rose to leave.</p>
<p>“Well!——” began George Tupper in a strangled
voice, as they moved away down the aisle.</p>
<p>I lit a cigar and sat back dutifully to listen.</p>
<p>Ukridge arrived in my rooms at midnight, his eyes
gleaming through their pince-nez with a strange light.
His manner was exuberant.</p>
<p>“It’s all right,” he said.</p>
<p>“I’m glad you think so.”</p>
<p>“Did you explain to Tuppy?”</p>
<p>“I didn’t get a chance. He was talking too hard.”</p>
<p>“About me?”</p>
<p>“Yes. He said everything I’ve always felt about you,
only far, far better than I could ever have put it.”</p>
<p>Ukridge’s face clouded for a moment, but cheerfulness
returned.</p>
<p>“Oh, well, it can’t be helped. He’ll simmer down in a
day or two. It had to be done, laddie. Life and death
matter. And it’s all right. Read this.”</p>
<p>I took the letter he handed me. It was written in a
scrawly hand.</p>
<p>“What’s this?”</p>
<p>“Read it, laddie. I think it will meet the case.”
I read.</p>
<p>“‘<i>Wilberforce.</i>’”</p>
<p>“Who on earth’s Wilberforce?”</p>
<p>“I told you that was Billson’s name.”</p>
<p>“Oh, yes.”</p>
<p>I returned to the letter.</p>
<div class="opening">“Wilberforce,—</div>
<p class="p1">“I take my pen in hand to tell you that I can
never be yours. You will no doubt be surprised to hear
that I love another and a better man, so that it can never
be. He loves me, and he is a better man than you.</p>
<p>“Hoping this finds you in the pink as it leaves me at
present,</p>
<div class="closure">  “Yours faithfully, </div>
<div class="signature">  “Florence Burns.” </div>
<p>“I told her to keep it snappy,” said Ukridge.</p>
<p>“Well, she’s certainly done it,” I replied, handing back
the letter. “I’m sorry. From the little I saw of her,
I thought her a nice girl—for Billson. Do you happen
to know the other man’s address? Because it would be a
kindly act to send him a post card advising him to leave
England for a year or two.”</p>
<p>“The Shoreditch Empire will find him this week.”</p>
<p>“What!”</p>
<p>“The other man is Tod Bingham.”</p>
<p>“Tod Bingham!” The drama of the situation moved
me. “Do you mean to say that Tod Bingham is in love
with Battling Billson’s girl?”</p>
<p>“No. He’s never seen her!”</p>
<p>“What do you mean?”</p>
<p>Ukridge sat down creakingly on the sofa. He slapped
my knee with sudden and uncomfortable violence.</p>
<p>“Laddie,” said Ukridge, “I will tell you all. Yesterday
afternoon I found old Billson reading a copy of the
 <i>Daily Sportsman.</i> He isn’t much of a reader as a rule,
so I was rather interested to know what had gripped him.
And do you know what it was, old horse?”</p>
<p>“I do not.”</p>
<p>“It was an article about Tod Bingham. One of those
damned sentimental blurbs they print about pugilists
nowadays, saying what a good chap he was in private life
and how he always sent a telegram to his old mother after
each fight and gave her half the purse. Damme, there
ought to be a censorship of the Press. These blighters
don’t mind <i>what</i> they print. I don’t suppose Tod Bingham
has <i>got</i> an old mother, and if he has I’ll bet he doesn’t
give her a bob. There were tears in that chump Billson’s
eyes as he showed me the article. Salt tears, laddie!
‘Must be a nice feller!’ he said. Well, I ask you! I
mean to say, it’s a bit thick when the man you’ve been
pouring out money for and watching over like a baby sister
starts getting sorry for a champion three days before he’s
due to fight him. A champion, mark you! It was bad
enough his getting mushy about that fellow at Wonderland,
but when it came to being soft-hearted over Tod Bingham
something had to be done. Well, you know me. Brain
like a buzz-saw. I saw the only way of counteracting
this pernicious stuff was to get him so mad with Tod
Bingham that he would forget all about his old mother,
so I suddenly thought: Why not get Flossie to pretend
that Bingham had cut him out with her? Well, it’s not
the sort of thing you can ask a girl to do without preparing
the ground a bit, so I brought her along to Tuppy’s
dinner. It was a master-stroke, laddie. There’s nothing
softens the delicately-nurtured like a good dinner, and
there’s no denying that old Tuppy did us well. She
agreed the moment I put the thing to her, and sat down
and wrote that letter without a blink. I think she thinks
it’s all a jolly practical joke. She’s a light-hearted girl.”</p>
<p>“Must be.”</p>
<p>“It’ll give poor old Billson a bit of a jar for the time
being, I suppose, but it’ll make him spread himself on
Saturday night, and he’ll be perfectly happy on Sunday
morning when she tells him she didn’t mean it and he
realises that he’s got a hundred quid of Tod Bingham’s
in his trousers pocket.”</p>
<p>“I thought you said it was two hundred quid that
Bingham was offering.”</p>
<p>“I get a hundred,” said Ukridge, dreamily.</p>
<p>“The only flaw is, the letter doesn’t give the other man’s
name. How is Billson to know it’s Tod Bingham?”</p>
<p>“Why, damme, laddie, do use your intelligence.
Billson isn’t going to sit and yawn when he gets that
letter. He’ll buzz straight down to Kennington and ask
Flossie.”</p>
<p>“And then she will give the whole thing away.”</p>
<p>“No, she won’t. I slipped her a couple of quid to
promise she wouldn’t. And that reminds me, old man,
it has left me a bit short, so if you could possibly
manage——”</p>
<p>“Good night,” I said.</p>
<p>“But, laddie——”</p>
<p>“And God bless you,” I added, firmly.</p>
<p>The Shoreditch Empire is a roomy house, but it was
crowded to the doors when I reached it on the Saturday
night. In normal circumstances I suppose there would
always have been a large audience on a Saturday, and this
evening the lure of Tod Bingham’s personal appearance
had drawn more than capacity. In return for my shilling
I was accorded the privilege of standing against the wall
at the back, a position from which I could not see a great
deal of the performance.</p>
<p>From the occasional flashes which I got of the stage
between the heads of my neighbours, however, and from
the generally restless and impatient attitude of the
audience I gathered that I was not missing much. The
programme of the Shoreditch Empire that week was
essentially a one-man affair. The patrons had the air
of suffering the preliminary acts as unavoidable obstacles
that stand between them and the head-liner. It was Tod
Bingham whom they had come to see, and they were not
cordial to the unfortunate serio-comics, tramp cyclists,
jugglers, acrobats, and ballad singers who intruded themselves
during the earlier part of the evening. The cheer
that arose as the curtain fell on a dramatic sketch came
from the heart, for the next number on the programme
was that of the star.</p>
<p>A stout man in evening dress with a red handkerchief
worn ambassadorially athwart his shirt-front stepped out
from the wings.</p>
<p>“Ladies and gentlemen!”</p>
<p>“’Ush!” cried the audience.</p>
<p>“Ladies and gentlemen!”</p>
<p>A Voice: “Good ole Tod!” (“Cheese it!”)</p>
<p>“Ladies and gentlemen,” said the ambassador for the
third time. He scanned the house apprehensively.
“Deeply regret have unfortunate disappointment to
announce. Tod Bingham unfortunately unable to appear
before you to-night.”</p>
<p>A howl like the howl of wolves balked of their prey or
of an amphitheatre full of Roman citizens on receipt of
the news that the supply of lions had run out greeted these
words. We stared at each other with a wild surmise. Could
this thing be, or was it not too thick for human belief?</p>
<p>“Wot’s the matter with ’im?” demanded the gallery,
hoarsely.</p>
<p>“Yus, wot’s the matter with ’im?” echoed we of the
better element on the lower floor.</p>
<p>The ambassador sidled uneasily towards the prompt
entrance. He seemed aware that he was not a popular
favourite.</p>
<p>“’E ’as ’ad an unfortunate accident,” he declared,
nervousness beginning to sweep away his aitches wholesale.
“On ’is way ’ere to this ’all ’e was unfortunately run into
by a truck, sustaining bruises and contusions which render
’im unfortunately unable to appear before you to-night.
I beg to announce that ’is place will be taken by Professor
Devine, who will render ’is marvellous imitations of
various birds and familiar animals. Ladies and gentlemen,”
concluded the ambassador, stepping nimbly off the
stage, “I thank you one and all.”</p>
<p>The curtain rose and a dapper individual with a waxed
moustache skipped on.</p>
<p>“Ladies and gentlemen, my first imitation will be of
that well-known songster, the common thrust—better
known to some of you per’aps as the throstle. And in
connection with my performance I wish to state that I
’ave nothing whatsoever in my mouth. The effects which
I produce——”</p>
<p>I withdrew, and two-thirds of the audience started to
do the same. From behind us, dying away as the doors
closed, came the plaintive note of the common thrush
feebly competing with that other and sterner bird which
haunts those places of entertainment where audiences are
critical and swift to take offence.</p>
<p>Out in the street a knot of Shoreditch’s younger set
were hanging on the lips of an excited orator in a battered
hat and trousers which had been made for a larger man.
Some stirring tale which he was telling held them spell-bound.
Words came raggedly through the noise of the
traffic.</p>
<p>“——like this. Then ’e ’its ’im another like that.
Then they start—on the side of the jor——”</p>
<p>“Pass along, there,” interrupted an official voice.
“Come on, there, pass along.”</p>
<p>The crowd thinned and resolved itself into its elements.
I found myself moving down the street in company with
the wearer of the battered hat. Though we had not
been formally introduced, he seemed to consider me a
suitable recipient for his tale. He enrolled me at once
as a nucleus for a fresh audience.</p>
<p>“’E comes up, this bloke does, just as Tod is goin’ in
at the stage-door——”</p>
<p>“Tod?” I queried.</p>
<p>“Tod Bingham. ’E comes up just as ’e’s goin’ in at
the stage-door, and ’e says ‘’Ere!’ and Tod says ‘Yus?’
and this bloke ’e says ‘Put ’em up!’ and Tod says ‘Put
wot up?’ and this bloke says ‘Yer ’ands,’ and Tod says
‘Wot, me?’—sort of surprised. An’ the next minute
they’re fightin’ all over the shop.”</p>
<p>“But surely Tod Bingham was run over by a truck?”</p>
<p>The man in the battered hat surveyed me with the
mingled scorn and resentment which the devout bestow
on those of heretical views.</p>
<p>“Truck! ’E wasn’t run over by no truck. Wot mikes
yer fink ’e was run over by a truck? Wot ’ud ’e be doin’
bein’ run over by a truck? ’E ’ad it put across ’im by
this red-’eaded bloke, same as I’m tellin’ yer.”</p>
<p>A great light shone upon me.</p>
<p>“Red-headed?” I cried.</p>
<p>“Yus.”</p>
<p>“A big man?”</p>
<p>“Yus.”</p>
<p>“And he put it across Tod Bingham?”</p>
<p>“Put it across ’im proper. ’Ad to go ’ome in a keb,
Tod did. Funny a bloke that could fight like that bloke
could fight ’adn’t the sense to go and do it on the stige
and get some money for it. That’s wot I think.”</p>
<p>Across the street an arc-lamp shed its cold rays. And
into its glare there strode a man draped in a yellow mackintosh.
The light gleamed on his pince-nez and lent a
gruesome pallor to his set face. It was Ukridge retreating
from Moscow.</p>
<p>“Others,” I said, “are thinking the same.”</p>
<p>And I hurried across the road to administer what feeble
consolation I might. There are moments when a fellow
needs a friend.</p>
<h2 id="CH4">  CHAPTER IV </h2>
<div class="chtitle">  FIRST AID FOR DORA </div>
<p>Never in the course of a long and intimate
acquaintance having been shown any evidence
to the contrary, I had always looked on Stanley
Featherstonehaugh Ukridge, my boyhood
chum, as a man ruggedly indifferent to the appeal of the
opposite sex. I had assumed that, like so many financial
giants, he had no time for dalliance with women—other and
deeper matters, I supposed, keeping that great brain permanently
occupied. It was a surprise, therefore, when,
passing down Shaftesbury Avenue one Wednesday afternoon
in June at the hour when <i>matinée</i> audiences were leaving
the theatres, I came upon him assisting a girl in a white
dress to mount an omnibus.</p>
<p>As far as this simple ceremony could be rendered impressive,
Ukridge made it so. His manner was a blend of courtliness
and devotion; and if his mackintosh had been a shade
less yellow and his hat a trifle less disreputable, he would
have looked just like Sir Walter Ralegh.</p>
<p>The bus moved on, Ukridge waved, and I proceeded to
make enquiries. I felt that I was an interested party.
There had been a distinctly “object-matrimony” look
about the back of his neck, it seemed to me; and the prospect
of having to support a Mrs. Ukridge and keep a flock
of little Ukridges in socks and shirts perturbed me.</p>
<p>“Who was that?” I asked.</p>
<p>“Oh, hallo, laddie!” said Ukridge, turning. “Where
did you spring from? If you had come a moment earlier,
I’d have introduced you to Dora.” The bus was lumbering
out of sight into Piccadilly Circus, and the white figure on
top turned and gave a final wave. “That was Dora
Mason,” said Ukridge, having flapped a large hand in reply.
“She’s my aunt’s secretary-companion. I used to see a bit
of her from time to time when I was living at Wimbledon.
Old Tuppy gave me a couple of seats for that show at the
Apollo, so I thought it would be a kindly act to ask her
along. I’m sorry for that girl. Sorry for her, old horse.”</p>
<p>“What’s the matter with her?”</p>
<p>“Hers is a grey life. She has few pleasures. It’s an act
of charity to give her a little treat now and then. Think of
it! Nothing to do all day but brush the Pekingese and
type out my aunt’s rotten novels.”</p>
<p>“Does your aunt write novels?”</p>
<p>“The world’s worst, laddie, the world’s worst. She’s
been steeped to the gills in literature ever since I can remember.
They’ve just made her president of the Pen and Ink
Club. As a matter of fact, it was her novels that did me in
when I lived with her. She used to send me to bed with the
beastly things and ask me questions about them at breakfast.
Absolutely without exaggeration, laddie, at breakfast.
It was a dog’s life, and I’m glad it’s over. Flesh and
blood couldn’t stand the strain. Well, knowing my aunt,
I don’t mind telling you that my heart bleeds for poor little
Dora. I know what a foul time she has, and I feel a better,
finer man for having given her this passing gleam of sunshine.
I wish I could have done more for her.”</p>
<p>“Well, you might have stood her tea after the
theatre.”</p>
<p>“Not within the sphere of practical politics, laddie.
Unless you can sneak out without paying, which is dashed
difficult to do with these cashiers watching the door like
weasels, tea even at an A B C shop punches the pocket-book
pretty hard, and at the moment I’m down to the scrapings.
But I’ll tell you what, I don’t mind joining you in a cup, if
you were thinking of it.”</p>
<p>“I wasn’t.”</p>
<p>“Come, come! A little more of the good old spirit of
hospitality, old horse.”</p>
<p>“Why do you wear that beastly mackintosh in mid-summer?”</p>
<p>“Don’t evade the point, laddie. I can see at a glance
that you need tea. You’re looking pale and fagged.”</p>
<p>“Doctors say that tea is bad for the nerves.”</p>
<p>“Yes, possibly there’s something in that. Then I’ll tell
you what,” said Ukridge, never too proud to yield a point,
“we’ll make it a whisky-and-soda instead. Come along
over to the Criterion.”</p>
<p>It was a few days after this that the Derby was run, and a
horse of the name of Gunga Din finished third. This did
not interest the great bulk of the intelligentsia to any
marked extent, the animal having started at a hundred to
three, but it meant much to me, for I had drawn his name in
the sweepstake at my club. After a monotonous series of
blanks stretching back to the first year of my membership,
this seemed to me the outstanding event of the century, and
I celebrated my triumph by an informal dinner to a few
friends. It was some small consolation to me later to
remember that I had wanted to include Ukridge in the
party, but failed to get hold of him. Dark hours were to
follow, but at least Ukridge did not go through them bursting
with my meat.</p>
<p>There is no form of spiritual exaltation so poignant as
that which comes from winning even a third prize in a
sweepstake. So tremendous was the moral uplift that,
when eleven o’clock arrived, it seemed silly to sit talking in a
club and still sillier to go to bed. I suggested spaciously
that we should all go off and dress and resume the revels at
my expense half an hour later at Mario’s, where, it being an
extension night, there would be music and dancing till
three. We scattered in cabs to our various homes.</p>
<p>How seldom in this life do we receive any premonition of
impending disaster. I hummed a gay air as I entered the
house in Ebury Street where I lodged, and not even the
usually quelling sight of Bowles, my landlord, in the hall as
I came in could quench my bonhomie. Generally a meeting
with Bowles had the effect on me which the interior of a
cathedral has on the devout, but to-night I was superior to
this weakness.</p>
<p>“Ah, Bowles,” I cried, chummily, only just stopping
myself from adding “Honest fellow!” “Hallo, Bowles!
I say, Bowles, I drew Gunga Din in the club sweep.”</p>
<p>“Indeed, sir?”</p>
<p>“Yes. He came in third, you know.”</p>
<p>“So I see by the evening paper, sir. I congratulate you.”</p>
<p>“Thank you, Bowles, thank you.”</p>
<p>“Mr. Ukridge called earlier in the evening, sir,” said
Bowles.</p>
<p>“Did he? Sorry I was out. I was trying to get hold of
him. Did he want anything in particular?”</p>
<p>“Your dress-clothes, sir.”</p>
<p>“My dress-clothes, eh?” I laughed genially. “Extraordinary
fellow! You never know——” A ghastly
thought smote me like a blow. A cold wind seemed to
blow through the hall. “He didn’t <i>get</i> them, did he?”
I quavered.</p>
<p>“Why, yes, sir.”</p>
<p>“Got my dress-clothes?” I muttered thickly, clutching
for support at the hat-stand.</p>
<p>“He said it would be all right, sir,” said Bowles, with that
sickening tolerance which he always exhibited for all that
Ukridge said or did. One of the leading mysteries of my
life was my landlord’s amazing attitude towards this hell-hound.
He fawned on the man. A splendid fellow like
myself had to go about in a state of hushed reverence
towards Bowles, while a human blot like Ukridge could
bellow at him over the banisters without the slightest
rebuke. It was one of those things which make one laugh
cynically when people talk about the equality of man.</p>
<p>“He got my dress-clothes?” I mumbled.</p>
<p>“Mr. Ukridge said that he knew you would be glad to let
him have them, as you would not be requiring them to-night.”</p>
<p>“But I do require them, damn it!” I shouted, lost to all
proper feeling. Never before had I let fall an oath in
Bowles’s presence. “I’m giving half a dozen men supper
at Mario’s in a quarter of an hour.”</p>
<p>Bowles clicked his tongue sympathetically.</p>
<p>“What am I going to do?”</p>
<p>“Perhaps if you would allow me to lend you mine, sir?”</p>
<p>“Yours?”</p>
<p>“I have a very nice suit. It was given to me by his lordship
the late Earl of Oxted, in whose employment I was for
many years. I fancy it would do very well on you, sir. His
lordship was about your height, though perhaps a little
slenderer. Shall I fetch it, sir? I have it in a trunk
downstairs.”</p>
<p>The obligations of hospitality are sacred. In fifteen
minutes’ time six jovial men would be assembling at Mario’s,
and what would they do, lacking a host? I nodded feebly.</p>
<p>“It’s very kind of you,” I managed to say.</p>
<p>“Not at all, sir. It is a pleasure.”</p>
<p>If he was speaking the truth, I was glad of it. It is nice to
think that the affair brought pleasure to someone.</p>
<p>That the late Earl of Oxted had indeed been a somewhat
slenderer man than myself became manifest to me from the
first pulling on of the trousers. Hitherto I had always
admired the slim, small-boned type of aristocrat, but it was
not long before I was wishing that Bowles had been in the
employment of someone who had gone in a little more
heartily for starchy foods. And I regretted, moreover, that
the fashion of wearing a velvet collar on an evening coat, if it
had to come in at all, had not lasted a few years longer.
Dim as the light in my bedroom was, it was strong enough
to make me wince as I looked in the mirror.</p>
<p>And I was aware of a curious odour.</p>
<p>“Isn’t this room a trifle stuffy, Bowles?”</p>
<p>“No, sir. I think not.”</p>
<p>“Don’t you notice an odd smell?”</p>
<p>“No, sir. But I have a somewhat heavy cold. If you
are ready, sir, I will call a cab.”</p>
<p>Moth-balls! That was the scent I had detected. It
swept upon me like a wave in the cab. It accompanied me
like a fog all the way to Mario’s, and burst out in its full
fragrance when I entered the place and removed my overcoat.
The cloak-room waiter sniffed in a startled way as
he gave me my check, one or two people standing near
hastened to remove themselves from my immediate neighbourhood,
and my friends, when I joined them, expressed
themselves with friend-like candour. With a solid unanimity
they told me frankly that it was only the fact that I
was paying for the supper that enabled them to tolerate my
presence.</p>
<p>The leper-like feeling induced by this uncharitable attitude
caused me after the conclusion of the meal to withdraw
to the balcony to smoke in solitude. My guests were
dancing merrily, but such pleasures were not for me.
Besides, my velvet collar had already excited ribald comment,
and I am a sensitive man. Crouched in a lonely
corner of the balcony, surrounded by the outcasts who were
not allowed on the lower floor because they were not dressed,
I chewed a cigar and watched the revels with a jaundiced eye.
The space reserved for dancing was crowded and couples
either revolved warily or ruthlessly bumped a passage for
themselves, using their partners as battering-rams. Prominent
among the ruthless bumpers was a big man who was
giving a realistic imitation of a steam-plough. He danced
strongly and energetically, and when he struck the line,
something had to give.</p>
<p>From the very first something about this man had
seemed familiar; but owing to his peculiar crouching
manner of dancing, which he seemed to have modelled on
the ring-style of Mr. James J. Jeffries, it was not immediately
that I was able to see his face. But presently, as the
music stopped and he straightened himself to clap his hands
for an encore, his foul features were revealed to me.</p>
<p>It was Ukridge. Ukridge, confound him, with my dress-clothes
fitting him so perfectly and with such unwrinkled
smoothness that he might have stepped straight out of one
of Ouida’s novels. Until that moment I had never fully
realized the meaning of the expression “faultless evening
dress.” With a passionate cry I leaped from my seat, and,
accompanied by a rich smell of camphor, bounded for the
stairs. Like Hamlet on a less impressive occasion, I wanted
to slay this man when he was full of bread, with all his
crimes, broad-blown, as flush as May, at drinking, swearing,
or about some act that had no relish of salvation in it.</p>
<p>“But, laddie,” said Ukridge, backed into a corner of the
lobby apart from the throng, “be reasonable.”</p>
<p>I cleansed my bosom of a good deal of that perilous stuff
that weighs upon the heart.</p>
<p>“How could I guess that you would want the things?
Look at it from my position, old horse. I knew you, laddie,
a good true friend who would be delighted to lend a pal his
dress-clothes any time when he didn’t need them himself,
and as you weren’t there when I called, I couldn’t ask you, so
I naturally simply borrowed them. It was all just one of
those little misunderstandings which can’t be helped. And,
as it luckily turns out, you had a spare suit, so everything
was all right, after all.”</p>
<p>“You don’t think this poisonous fancy dress is mine, do
you?”</p>
<p>“Isn’t it?” said Ukridge, astonished.</p>
<p>“It belongs to Bowles. He lent it to me.”</p>
<p>“And most extraordinarily well you look in it, laddie,”
said Ukridge. “Upon my Sam, you look like a duke or
something.”</p>
<p>“And smell like a second-hand clothes-store.”</p>
<p>“Nonsense, my dear old son, nonsense. A mere faint
suggestion of some rather pleasant antiseptic. Nothing
more. I like it. It’s invigorating. Honestly, old man,
it’s really remarkable what an air that suit gives you. Distinguished.
That’s the word I was searching for. You
look distinguished. All the girls are saying so. When you
came in just now to speak to me, I heard one of them
whisper ‘Who is it?’ That shows you.”</p>
<p>“More likely ‘What is it?’”</p>
<p>“Ha, ha!” bellowed Ukridge, seeking to cajole me with
sycophantic mirth. “Dashed good! Deuced good! Not
‘Who is it?’ but ‘What is it?’ It beats me how you
think of these things. Golly, if I had a brain like yours——But
now, old son, if you don’t mind, I really must be getting
back to poor little Dora. She’ll be wondering what has
become of me.”</p>
<p>The significance of these words had the effect of making
me forget my just wrath for a moment.</p>
<p>“Are you here with that girl you took to the theatre the
other afternoon?”</p>
<p>“Yes. I happened to win a trifle on the Derby, so I
thought it would be the decent thing to ask her out for an
evening’s pleasure. Hers is a grey life.”</p>
<p>“It must be, seeing you so much.”</p>
<p>“A little personal, old horse,” said Ukridge reprovingly.
“A trifle bitter. But I know you don’t mean it. Yours is
a heart of gold really. If I’ve said that once, I’ve said it a
hundred times. Always saying it. Rugged exterior but
heart of gold. My very words. Well, good-bye for the
present, laddie. I’ll look in to-morrow and return these
things. I’m sorry there was any misunderstanding about
them, but it makes up for everything, doesn’t it, to feel that
you’ve helped brighten life for a poor little downtrodden
thing who has few pleasures.”</p>
<p>“Just one last word,” I said. “One final remark.”</p>
<p>“Yes?”</p>
<p>“I’m sitting in that corner of the balcony over there,” I
said. “I mention the fact so that you can look out for
yourself. If you come dancing underneath there, I shall
drop a plate on you. And if it kills you, so much the better.
I’m a poor downtrodden little thing, and I have few pleasures.”</p>
<p>Owing to a mawkish respect for the conventions, for
which I reproach myself, I did not actually perform this
service to humanity. With the exception of throwing a roll
at him—which missed him but most fortunately hit the
member of my supper-party who had sniffed with the most
noticeable offensiveness at my camphorated costume—I
took no punitive measures against Ukridge that night. But
his demeanour, when he called at my rooms next day, could
not have been more crushed if I had dropped a pound of
lead on him. He strode into my sitting-room with the
sombre tread of the man who in a conflict with Fate has
received the loser’s end. I had been passing in my mind a
number of good snappy things to say to him, but his appearance
touched me to such an extent that I held them in. To
abuse this man would have been like dancing on a tomb.</p>
<p>“For Heaven’s sake what’s the matter?” I asked.
“You look like a toad under the harrow.”</p>
<p>He sat down creakingly, and lit one of my cigars.</p>
<p>“Poor little Dora!”</p>
<p>“What about her?”</p>
<p>“She’s got the push!”</p>
<p>“The push? From your aunt’s, do you mean?”</p>
<p>“Yes.”</p>
<p>“What for?”</p>
<p>Ukridge sighed heavily.</p>
<p>“Most unfortunate business, old horse, and largely my
fault. I thought the whole thing was perfectly safe. You
see, my aunt goes to bed at half-past ten every night, so it
seemed to me that if Dora slipped out at eleven and left a
window open behind her she could sneak back all right when
we got home from Mario’s. But what happened? Some
dashed officious ass,” said Ukridge, with honest wrath,
“went and locked the damned window. I don’t know who
it was. I suspect the butler. He has a nasty habit of
going round the place late at night and shutting things.
Upon my Sam, it’s a little hard! If only people would
leave things alone and not go snooping about——”</p>
<p>“What happened?”</p>
<p>“Why, it was the scullery window which we’d left open,
and when we got back at four o’clock this morning the
infernal thing was shut as tight as an egg. Things looked
pretty rocky, but Dora remembered that her bedroom
window was always open, so we bucked up again for a bit.
Her room’s on the second floor, but I knew where there was
a ladder, so I went and got it, and she was just hopping up
as merry as dammit when somebody flashed a great beastly
lantern on us, and there was a policeman, wanting to know
what the game was. The whole trouble with the police
force of London, laddie, the thing that makes them a hissing
and a byword, is that they’re snoopers to a man. Zeal, I
suppose they call it. Why they can’t attend to their own
affairs is more than I can understand. Dozens of murders
going on all the time, probably, all over Wimbledon, and all
this bloke would do was stand and wiggle his infernal
lantern and ask what the game was. Wouldn’t be satisfied
with a plain statement that it was all right. Insisted on
rousing the house to have us identified.”</p>
<p>Ukridge paused, a reminiscent look of pain on his expressive
face.</p>
<p>“And then?” I said.</p>
<p>“We were,” said Ukridge, briefly.</p>
<p>“What?”</p>
<p>“Identified. By my aunt. In a dressing-gown and a
revolver. And the long and the short of it is, old man, that
poor little Dora has got the sack.”</p>
<p>I could not find it in my heart to blame his aunt for what
he evidently considered a high-handed and tyrannical outrage.
If I were a maiden lady of regular views, I should
relieve myself of the services of any secretary-companion
who returned to roost only a few short hours in advance of
the milk. But, as Ukridge plainly desired sympathy rather
than an austere pronouncement on the relations of employer
and employed, I threw him a couple of tuts, which seemed
to soothe him a little. He turned to the practical side of
the matter.</p>
<p>“What’s to be done?”</p>
<p>“I don’t see what you can do.”</p>
<p>“But I must do something. I’ve lost the poor little
thing her job, and I must try to get it back. It’s a rotten
sort of job, but it’s her bread and butter. Do you think
George Tupper would biff round and have a chat with my
aunt, if I asked him?”</p>
<p>“I suppose he would. He’s the best-hearted man in the
world. But I doubt if he’ll be able to do much.”</p>
<p>“Nonsense, laddie,” said Ukridge, his unconquerable
optimism rising bravely from the depths. “I have the
utmost confidence in old Tuppy. A man in a million. And
he’s such a dashed respectable sort of bloke that he might
have her jumping through hoops and shamming dead before
she knew what was happening to her. You never know.
Yes, I’ll try old Tuppy. I’ll go and see him now.”</p>
<p>“I should.”</p>
<p>“Just lend me a trifle for a cab, old son, and I shall be
able to get to the Foreign Office before one o’clock. I mean
to say, even if nothing comes of it, I shall be able to get a
lunch out of him. And I need refreshment, laddie, need it
sorely. The whole business has shaken me very much.”</p>
<p>It was three days after this that, stirred by a pleasant
scent of bacon and coffee, I hurried my dressing and, proceeding
to my sitting-room, found that Ukridge had dropped
in to take breakfast with me, as was often his companionable
practice. He seemed thoroughly cheerful again, and
was plying knife and fork briskly like the good trencherman
he was.</p>
<p>“Morning, old horse,” he said agreeably.</p>
<p>“Good morning.”</p>
<p>“Devilish good bacon, this. As good as I’ve ever bitten.
Bowles is cooking you some more.”</p>
<p>“That’s nice. I’ll have a cup of coffee, if you don’t mind
me making myself at home while I’m waiting.” I started
to open the letters by my plate, and became aware that my
guest was eyeing me with a stare of intense penetration
through his pince-nez, which were all crooked as usual.
“What’s the matter?”</p>
<p>“Matter?”</p>
<p>“Why,” I said, “are you looking at me like a fish with
lung-trouble?”</p>
<p>“Was I?” He took a sip of coffee with an overdone
carelessness. “Matter of fact, old son, I was rather
interested. I see you’ve had a letter from my aunt.”</p>
<p>“What?”</p>
<p>I had picked up the last envelope. It was addressed in a
strong female hand, strange to me. I now tore it open. It
was even as Ukridge had said. Dated the previous day and
headed “Heath House, Wimbledon Common,” the letter
ran as follows:—</p>
<p>“<span class="smcap">Dear Sir</span>,—I shall be happy to see you if you will call
at this address the day after to-morrow (Friday) at four-thirty.—Yours
faithfully, <span class="smcap">Julia Ukridge</span>.”</p>
<p>I could make nothing of this. My morning mail, whether
pleasant or the reverse, whether bringing a bill from a
tradesman or a cheque from an editor, had had till now the
uniform quality of being plain, straightforward, and easy to
understand; but this communication baffled me. How
Ukridge’s aunt had become aware of my existence, and why
a call from me should ameliorate her lot, were problems
beyond my unravelling, and I brooded over it as an Egyptologist
might over some newly-discovered hieroglyphic.</p>
<p>“What does she say?” enquired Ukridge.</p>
<p>“She wants me to call at half-past four to-morrow afternoon.”</p>
<p>“Splendid!” cried Ukridge. “I knew she would bite.”</p>
<p>“What on earth are you talking about?”</p>
<p>Ukridge reached across the table and patted me affectionately
on the shoulder. The movement involved the upsetting
of a full cup of coffee, but I suppose he meant well. He
sank back again in his chair and adjusted his pince-nez in
order to get a better view of me. I seemed to fill him with
honest joy, and he suddenly burst into a spirited eulogy,
rather like some minstrel of old delivering an <i>ex-tempore</i>
boost of his chieftain and employer.</p>
<p>“Laddie,” said Ukridge, “if there’s one thing about you
that I’ve always admired it’s your readiness to help a pal.
One of the most admirable qualities a bloke can possess, and
nobody has it to a greater extent than you. You’re practically
unique in that way. I’ve had men come up to me and
ask me about you. ‘What sort of a chap is he?’ they say.
‘One of the very best,’ I reply. ‘A fellow you can rely on.
A man who would die rather than let you down. A bloke
who would go through fire and water to do a pal a good turn.
A bird with a heart of gold and a nature as true as steel.’”</p>
<p>“Yes, I’m a splendid fellow,” I agreed, slightly perplexed
by this panegyric. “Get on.”</p>
<p>“I am getting on, old horse,” said Ukridge with faint
reproach. “What I’m trying to say is that I knew you
would-be delighted to tackle this little job for me. It
wasn’t necessary to ask you. I <i>knew.</i>”</p>
<p>A grim foreboding of an awful doom crept over me, as it
had done so often before in my association with Ukridge.</p>
<p>“Will you kindly tell me what damned thing you’ve let
me in for now?”</p>
<p>Ukridge deprecated my warmth with a wave of his fork.
He spoke soothingly and with a winning persuasiveness.
He practically cooed.</p>
<p>“It’s nothing, laddie. Practically nothing. Just a
simple little act of kindness which you will thank me for
putting in your way. It’s like this. As I ought to have
foreseen from the first, that ass Tuppy proved a broken reed.
In that matter of Dora, you know. Got no result whatever.
He went to see my aunt the day before yesterday, and asked
her to take Dora on again, and she gave him the miss-in-balk.
I’m not surprised. I never had any confidence in
Tuppy. It was a mistake ever sending him. It’s no good
trying frontal attack in a delicate business like this. What
you need is strategy. You want to think what is the
enemy’s weak side and then attack from that angle. Now,
what is my aunt’s weak side, laddie? Her weak side, what
is it? Now think. Reflect, old horse.”</p>
<p>“From the sound of her voice, the only time I ever got
near her, I should say she hadn’t one.”</p>
<p>“That’s where you make your error, old son. Butter her
up about her beastly novels, and a child could eat out of her
hand. When Tuppy let me down I just lit a pipe and had a
good think. And then suddenly I got it. I went to a pal
of mine, a thorough sportsman—you don’t know him. I
must introduce you some day—and he wrote my aunt a
letter from you, asking if you could come and interview her
for <i>Woman’s Sphere.</i> It’s a weekly paper, which I happen
to know she takes in regularly. Now, listen, laddie. Don’t
interrupt for a moment. I want you to get the devilish
shrewdness of this. You go and interview her, and she’s all
over you. Tickled to death. Of course, you’ll have to do a
good deal of Young Disciple stuff, but you won’t mind that.
After you’ve soft-soaped her till she’s purring like a dynamo,
you get up to go. ‘Well,’ you say, ‘this has been the
proudest occasion of my life, meeting one whose work I have
so long admired.’ And she says, ‘The pleasure is mine, old
horse.’ And you slop over each other a bit more. Then
you say sort of casually, as if it had just occurred to you,
‘Oh, by the way, I believe my cousin—or sister——No,
better make it cousin—I believe my cousin, Miss Dora
Mason, is your secretary, isn’t she?’ ‘She isn’t any such
dam’ thing,’ replies my aunt. ‘I sacked her three days
ago.’ That’s your cue, laddie. Your face falls, you register
concern, you’re frightfully cut up. You start in to ask her
to let Dora come back. And you’re such pals by this time
that she can refuse you nothing. And there you are! My
dear old son, you can take it from me that if you only keep
your head and do the Young Disciple stuff properly the
thing can’t fail. It’s an iron-clad scheme. There isn’t a
flaw in it.”</p>
<p>“There is one.”</p>
<p>“I think you’re wrong. I’ve gone over the thing very
carefully. What is it?”</p>
<p>“The flaw is that I’m not going anywhere near your
infernal aunt. So you can trot back to your forger
chum and tell him he’s wasted a good sheet of letter-paper.”</p>
<p>A pair of pince-nez tinkled into a plate. Two pained eyes
blinked at me across the table. Stanley Featherstonehaugh
Ukridge was wounded to the quick.</p>
<p>“You don’t mean to say you’re backing out?” he said,
in a low, quivering voice.</p>
<p>“I never was in.”</p>
<p>“Laddie,” said Ukridge, weightily, resting an elbow on
his last slice of bacon, “I want to ask you one question.
Just one simple question. Have you ever let me down?
Has there been one occasion in our long friendship when I
have relied upon you and been deceived? Not one!”</p>
<p>“Everything’s got to have a beginning. I’m starting
now.”</p>
<p>“But think of her. Dora! Poor little Dora. Think of
poor little Dora.”</p>
<p>“If this business teaches her to keep away from you, it
will be a blessing in the end.”</p>
<p>“But, laddie——”</p>
<p>I suppose there is some fatal weakness in my character, or
else the brand of bacon which Bowles cooked possessed a
peculiarly mellowing quality. All I know is that, after
being adamant for a good ten minutes, I finished breakfast
committed to a task from which my soul revolted. After
all, as Ukridge said, it was rough on the girl. Chivalry is
chivalry. We must strive to lend a helping hand as we go
through this world of ours, and all that sort of thing. Four
o’clock on the following afternoon found me entering a cab
and giving the driver the address of Heath House, Wimbledon
Common.</p>
<p>My emotions on entering Heath House were such as I
would have felt had I been keeping a tryst with a dentist
who by some strange freak happened also to be a duke.
From the moment when a butler of super-Bowles dignity
opened the door and, after regarding me with ill-concealed
dislike, started to conduct me down a long hall, I was in the
grip of both fear and humility. Heath House is one of the
stately homes of Wimbledon; how beautiful they stand, as
the poet says: and after the humble drabness of Ebury
Street it frankly overawed me. Its keynote was an extreme
neatness which seemed to sneer at my squashy collar and
reproach my baggy trouser-leg. The farther I penetrated
over the polished floor, the more vividly was it brought
home to me that I was one of the submerged tenth and could
have done with a hair-cut. I had not been aware when I
left home that my hair was unusually long, but now I
seemed to be festooned by a matted and offensive growth.
A patch on my left shoe which had had a rather comfortable
look in Ebury Street stood out like a blot on the landscape.
No, I was not at my ease; and when I reflected that in a
few moments I was to meet Ukridge’s aunt, that legendary
figure, face to face, a sort of wistful admiration filled me for
the beauty of the nature of one who would go through all
this to help a girl he had never even met. There was no
doubt about it—the facts spoke for themselves—I was one
of the finest fellows I had ever known. Nevertheless, there
was no getting away from it, my trousers did bag at the
knee.</p>
<p>“Mr. Corcoran,” announced the butler, opening the
drawing-room door. He spoke with just that intonation of
voice that seemed to disclaim all responsibility. If I had
an appointment, he intimated, it was his duty, however
repulsive, to show me in; but, that done, he disociated
himself entirely from the whole affair.</p>
<p>There were two women and six Pekingese dogs in the
room. The Pekes I had met before, during their brief
undergraduate days at Ukridge’s dog college, but they did
not appear to recognise me. The occasion when they had
lunched at my expense seemed to have passed from their
minds. One by one they came up, sniffed, and then moved
away as if my bouquet had disappointed them. They gave
the impression that they saw eye to eye with the butler in
his estimate of the young visitor. I was left to face the two
women.</p>
<p>Of these—reading from right to left—one was a tall,
angular, hawk-faced female with a stony eye. The other,
to whom I gave but a passing glance at the moment, was
small, and so it seemed to me, pleasant-looking. She had
bright hair faintly powdered with grey, and mild eyes of a
china blue. She reminded me of the better class of cat. I
took her to be some casual caller who had looked in for a cup
of tea. It was the hawk on whom I riveted my attention.
She was looking at me with a piercing and unpleasant stare,
and I thought how exactly she resembled the picture I had
formed of her in my mind from Ukridge’s conversation.</p>
<p>“Miss Ukridge?” I said, sliding on a rug towards her
and feeling like some novice whose manager, against his
personal wishes, has fixed him up with a match with the
heavyweight champion.</p>
<p>“I am Miss Ukridge,” said the other woman. “Miss
Watterson, Mr. Corcoran.”</p>
<p>It was a shock, but, the moment of surprise over, I began
to feel something approaching mental comfort for the first
time since I had entered this house of slippery rugs and
supercilious butlers. Somehow I had got the impression
from Ukridge that his aunt was a sort of stage aunt, all stiff
satin and raised eyebrows. This half-portion with the mild
blue eyes I felt that I could tackle. It passed my comprehension
why Ukridge should ever have found her intimidating.</p>
<p>“I hope you will not mind if we have our little talk before
Miss Watterson,” she said with a charming smile. “She
has come to arrange the details of the Pen and Ink Club
dance which we are giving shortly. She will keep quite
quiet and not interrupt. You don’t mind?”</p>
<p>“Not at all, not at all,” I said in my attractive way. It
is not exaggerating to say that at this moment I felt debonair.
“Not at all, not at all. Oh, not at all.”</p>
<p>“Won’t you sit down?”</p>
<p>“Thank you, thank you.”</p>
<p>The hawk moved over to the window, leaving us to ourselves.</p>
<p>“Now we are quite cosy,” said Ukridge’s aunt.</p>
<p>“Yes, yes,” I agreed. Dash it, I liked this woman.</p>
<p>“Tell me, Mr. Corcoran,” said Ukridge’s aunt, “are you
on the staff of <i>Woman’s Sphere</i>? It is one of my favourite
papers. I read it every week.”</p>
<p>“The outside staff.”</p>
<p>“What do you mean by the outside staff?”</p>
<p>“Well, I don’t actually work in the office, but the editor
gives me occasional jobs.”</p>
<p>“I see. Who is the editor now?”</p>
<p>I began to feel slightly less debonair. She was just
making conversation, of course, to put me at my ease, but I
wished she would stop asking me these questions. I
searched desperately in my mind for a name—any name—but
as usual on these occasions every name in the English
language had passed from me.</p>
<p>“Of course. I remember now,” said Ukridge’s aunt, to
my profound relief. “It’s Mr. Jevons, isn’t it? I met
him one night at dinner.”</p>
<p>“Jevons,” I burbled. “That’s right. Jevons.”</p>
<p>“A tall man with a light moustache.”</p>
<p>“Well, fairly tall,” I said, judicially.</p>
<p>“And he sent you here to interview me?”</p>
<p>“Yes.”</p>
<p>“Well, which of my novels do you wish me to talk
about?”</p>
<p>I relaxed with a delightful sense of relief. I felt on solid
ground at last. And then it suddenly came to me that
Ukridge in his woollen-headed way had omitted to mention
the name of a single one of this woman’s books.</p>
<p>“Er—oh, all of them,” I said hurriedly.</p>
<p>“I see. My general literary work.”</p>
<p>“Exactly,” I said. My feeling towards her now was one
of positive affection.</p>
<p>She leaned back in her chair with her finger-tips together,
a pretty look of meditation on her face.</p>
<p>“Do you think it would interest the readers of <i>Woman’s
Sphere</i> to know which novel of mine is my own favourite?”</p>
<p>“I am sure it would.”</p>
<p>“Of course,” said Ukridge’s aunt, “it is not easy for an
author to answer a question like that. You see, one has
moods in which first one book and then another appeals
to one.”</p>
<p>“Quite,” I replied. “Quite.”</p>
<p>“Which of my books do <i>you</i> like best, Mr. Corcoran?”</p>
<p>There swept over me the trapped feeling one gets in nightmares.
From six baskets the six Pekingese stared at me
unwinkingly.</p>
<p>“Er—oh, all of them,” I heard a croaking voice reply.
My voice, presumably, though I did not recognise it.</p>
<p>“How delightful!” said Ukridge’s aunt. “Now, I
really do call that delightful. One or two of the critics
have said that my work was uneven. It is so nice to meet
someone who doesn’t agree with them. Personally, I
think my favourite is <i>The Heart of Adelaide.</i>”</p>
<p>I nodded my approval of this sound choice. The muscles
which had humped themselves stiffly on my back began
to crawl back into place again. I found it possible to
breathe.</p>
<p>“Yes,” I said, frowning thoughtfully, “I suppose <i>The
Heart of Adelaide</i> is the best thing you have written. It
has such human appeal,” I added, playing it safe.</p>
<p>“Have you read it, Mr. Corcoran?”</p>
<p>“Oh yes.”</p>
<p>“And you really enjoyed it?”</p>
<p>“Tremendously.”</p>
<p>“You don’t think it is a fair criticism to say that it is a
little broad in parts?”</p>
<p>“Most unfair.” I began to see my way. I do not know
why, but I had been assuming that her novels must be the
sort you find in seaside libraries. Evidently they belonged
to the other class of female novels, the sort which libraries
ban. “Of course,” I said, “it is written honestly, fearlessly,
and shows life as it is. But broad? No, no!”</p>
<p>“That scene in the conservatory?”</p>
<p>“Best thing in the book,” I said stoutly.</p>
<p>A pleased smile played about her mouth. Ukridge had
been right. Praise her work, and a child could eat out of
her hand. I found myself wishing that I had really read the
thing, so that I could have gone into more detail and made
her still happier.</p>
<p>“I’m so glad you like it,” she said. “Really, it is most
encouraging.”</p>
<p>“Oh, no,” I murmured modestly.</p>
<p>“Oh, but it is. Because I have only just started to
write it, you see. I finished chapter one this morning.”</p>
<p>She was still smiling so engagingly that for a moment the
full horror of these words did not penetrate my consciousness.</p>
<p>“<i>The Heart of Adelaide</i> is my next novel. The scene in
the conservatory, which you like so much, comes towards
the middle of it. I was not expecting to reach it till about
the end of next month. How odd that you should know all
about it!”</p>
<p>I had got it now all right, and it was like sitting down on
the empty space where there should have been a chair.
Somehow the fact that she was so pleasant about it all
served to deepen my discomfiture. In the course of an
active life I have frequently felt a fool, but never such a fool
as I felt then. The fearful woman had been playing with
me, leading me on, watching me entangle myself like a fly
on fly-paper. And suddenly I perceived that I had erred
in thinking of her eyes as mild. A hard gleam had come
into them. They were like a couple of blue gimlets. She
looked like a cat that had caught a mouse, and it was
revealed to me in one sickening age-long instant why
Ukridge went in fear of her. There was that about her
which would have intimidated the Sheik.</p>
<p>“It seems so odd, too,” she tinkled on, “that you should
have come to interview me for <i>Woman’s Sphere.</i> Because
they published an interview with me only the week before
last. I thought it so strange that I rang up my friend Miss
Watterson, who is the editress, and asked her if there had
not been some mistake. And she said she had never heard
of you. <i>Have</i> you ever heard of Mr. Corcoran, Muriel?”</p>
<p>“Never,” said the hawk, fixing me with a revolted eye.</p>
<p>“How strange!” said Ukridge’s aunt. “But then the
whole thing is so strange. Oh, must you go, Mr. Corcoran?”</p>
<p>My mind was in a slightly chaotic condition, but on that
one point it was crystal-clear. Yes, I must go. Through
the door if I could find it—failing that, through the window.
And anybody who tried to stop me would do well to have a
care.</p>
<p>“You will remember me to Mr. Jevons when you see him,
won’t you?” said Ukridge’s aunt.</p>
<p>I was fumbling at the handle.</p>
<p>“And, Mr. Corcoran.” She was still smiling amiably,
but there had come into her voice a note like that which it
had had on a certain memorable occasion when summoning
Ukridge to his doom from the unseen interior of his Sheep’s
Cray Cottage. “Will you please tell my nephew Stanley
that I should be glad if he would send no more of his friends
to see me. Good afternoon.”</p>
<p>I suppose that at some point in the proceedings my
hostess must have rung a bell, for out in the passage I found
my old chum, the butler. With the uncanny telepathy of
his species he appeared aware that I was leaving under what
might be called a cloud, for his manner had taken on a
warder-like grimness. His hand looked as if it was itching
to grasp me by the shoulder, and when we reached the front
door he eyed the pavement wistfully, as if thinking what
splendid spot it would be for me to hit with a thud.</p>
<p>“Nice day,” I said, with the feverish instinct to babble
which comes to strong men in their agony.</p>
<p>He scorned to reply, and as I tottered down the sunlit
street I was conscious of his gaze following me.</p>
<p>“A very vicious specimen,” I could fancy him saying.
“And mainly due to my prudence and foresight that he
hasn’t got away with the spoons.”</p>
<p>It was a warm afternoon, but to such an extent had the
recent happenings churned up my emotions that I walked
the whole way back to Ebury Street with a rapidity which
caused more languid pedestrians to regard me with a pitying
contempt. Reaching my sitting-room in an advanced
state of solubility and fatigue, I found Ukridge stretched
upon the sofa.</p>
<p>“Hallo, laddie!” said Ukridge, reaching out a hand for
the cooling drink that lay on the floor beside him. “I was
wondering when you would show up. I wanted to tell you
that it won’t be necessary for you to go and see my aunt
after all. It appears that Dora has a hundred quid tucked
away in a bank, and she’s been offered a partnership by a
woman she knows who runs one of these typewriting places.
I advised her to close with it. So she’s all right.”</p>
<p>He quaffed deeply of the bowl and breathed a contented
sigh. There was a silence.</p>
<p>“When did you hear of this?” I asked at length.</p>
<p>“Yesterday afternoon,” said Ukridge. “I meant to pop
round and tell you, but somehow it slipped my mind.”</p>
<h2 id="CH5">  CHAPTER V </h2>
<div class="chtitle">  THE RETURN OF BATTLING BILLSON </div>
<p>It was a most embarrassing moment, one of those
moments which plant lines on the face and turn the
hair a distinguished grey at the temples. I looked
at the barman. The barman looked at me. The
assembled company looked at us both impartially.</p>
<p>“Ho!” said the barman.</p>
<p>I am very quick. I could see at once that he was not in
sympathy with me. He was a large, profuse man, and his
eye as it met mine conveyed the impression that he regarded
me as a bad dream come true. His mobile lips curved
slightly, showing a gold tooth; and the muscles of his
brawny arms, which were strong as iron bands, twitched a
little.</p>
<p>“Ho!” he said.</p>
<p>The circumstances which had brought me into my present
painful position were as follows. In writing those stories
for the popular magazines which at that time were causing
so many editors so much regret, I was accustomed, like one
of my brother-authors, to take all mankind for my province.
Thus, one day I would be dealing with dukes in their castles,
the next I would turn right round and start tackling the
submerged tenth in their slums. Versatile. At the
moment I happened to be engaged upon a rather poignant
little thing about a girl called Liz, who worked in a fried-fish
shop in the Ratcliff Highway, and I had accordingly gone
down there to collect local colour. For whatever Posterity
may say of James Corcoran, it can never say that he shrank
from inconvenience where his Art was concerned.</p>
<p>The Ratcliff Highway is an interesting thoroughfare, but
on a warm day it breeds thirst. After wandering about
for an hour or so, therefore, I entered the Prince of
Wales public-house, called for a pint of beer, drained it
at a draught, reached in my pocket for coin, and found
emptiness. I was in a position to add to my notes on the
East End of London one to the effect that pocket-pickery
flourishes there as a fine art.</p>
<p>“I’m awfully sorry,” I said, smiling an apologetic smile
and endeavouring to put a debonair winsomeness into my
voice. “I find I’ve got no money.”</p>
<p>It was at this point that the barman said “Ho!” and
moved out into the open through a trick door in the counter.</p>
<p>“I think my pocket must have been picked,” I said.</p>
<p>“Oh, do you?” said the barman.</p>
<p>He gave me the idea of being rather a soured man. Years
of association with unscrupulous citizens who tried to get
drinks for nothing had robbed him of that fine fresh young
enthusiasm with which he had started out on his career of
barmanship.</p>
<p>“I had better leave my name and address,” I suggested.</p>
<p>“Who,” enquired the barman, coldly, “wants your
blinking name and address?”</p>
<p>These practical men go straight to the heart of a thing.
He had put his finger on the very hub of the matter. Who
did want my blinking name and address? No one.</p>
<p>“I will send——” I was proceeding, when things began
to happen suddenly. An obviously expert hand gripped
me by the back of the neck, another closed upon the seat of
my trousers, there was a rush of air, and I was rolling across
the pavement in the direction of a wet and unsavoury
gutter. The barman, gigantic against the dirty white
front of the public-house, surveyed me grimly.</p>
<p>I think that, if he had confined himself to mere looks—however
offensive—I would have gone no farther into the
matter. After all, the man had right on his side. How
could he be expected to see into my soul and note its snowy
purity? But, as I picked myself up, he could not resist the
temptation to improve the occasion.</p>
<p>“That’s what comes of tryin’ to snitch drinks,” he said,
with what seemed to me insufferable priggishness.</p>
<p>Those harsh words stung me to the quick. I burned with
generous wrath. I flung myself on that barman. The
futility of attacking such a Colossus never occurred to me.
I forgot entirely that he could put me out of action with one
hand.</p>
<p>A moment later, however, he had reminded me of this
fact. Even as I made my onslaught an enormous fist came
from nowhere and crashed into the side of my head. I sat
down again.</p>
<p>“’Ullo!”</p>
<p>I was aware, dimly, that someone was speaking to me,
someone who was not the barman. That athlete had already
dismissed me as a spent force and returned to his professional
duties. I looked up and got a sort of general
impression of bigness and blue serge, and then I was lifted
lightly to my feet.</p>
<p>My head had begun to clear now, and I was able to look
more steadily at my sympathiser. And, as I looked, the
feeling came to me that I had seen him before somewhere.
That red hair, those glinting eyes, that impressive bulk—it
was my old friend Wilberforce Billson and no other—Battling
Billson, the coming champion, whom I had last
seen fighting at Wonderland under the personal management
of Stanley Featherstonehaugh Ukridge.</p>
<p>“Did ’e ’it yer?” enquired Mr. Billson.</p>
<p>There was only one answer to this. Disordered though
my faculties were, I was clear upon this point. I said,
“Yes, he did hit me.”</p>
<p>“’R!” said Mr. Billson, and immediately passed into the
hostelry.</p>
<p>It was not at once that I understood the significance of
this move. The interpretation I placed upon his abrupt
departure was that, having wearied of my society, he had
decided to go and have some refreshment. Only when the
sound of raised voices from within came pouring through
the door did I begin to suspect that in attributing to it such
callousness I might have wronged that golden nature.
With the sudden reappearance of the barman—who shot out
as if impelled by some imperious force and did a sort of
backwards fox-trot across the pavement—suspicion became
certainty.</p>
<p>The barman, as becomes a man plying his trade in the
Ratcliff Highway, was made of stern stuff. He was no
poltroon. As soon as he had managed to stop himself from
pirouetting, he dabbed at his right cheek-bone in a delicate
manner, soliloquised for a moment, and then dashed back
into the bar. And it was after the door had swung to
again behind him that the proceedings may have been said
formally to have begun.</p>
<p>What precisely was going on inside that bar I was still too
enfeebled to go and see. It sounded like an earthquake,
and no meagre earthquake at that. All the glassware in
the world seemed to be smashing simultaneously, the populations
of several cities were shouting in unison, and I could
almost fancy that I saw the walls of the building shake and
heave. And then somebody blew a police-whistle.</p>
<p>There is a magic about the sound of a police-whistle. It
acts like oil on the most troubled waters. This one brought
about an instant lull in the tumult. Glasses ceased to
break, voices were hushed, and a moment later out came Mr.
Billson, standing not upon the order of his going. His nose
was bleeding a little and there was the scenario of a black
eye forming on his face, but otherwise there seemed nothing
much the matter with him. He cast a wary look up and
down the street and sprinted for the nearest corner. And I,
shaking off the dreamy after-effects of my encounter with
the barman, sprinted in his wake. I was glowing with
gratitude and admiration. I wanted to catch this man up
and thank him formally. I wanted to assure him of my
undying esteem. Moreover, I wanted to borrow sixpence
from him. The realisation that he was the only man in the
whole wide East End of London who was likely to lend me
the money to save me having to walk back to Ebury Street
gave me a rare burst of speed.</p>
<p>It was not easy to overtake him, for the sound of my
pursuing feet evidently suggested to Mr. Billson that the
hunt was up, and he made good going. Eventually, however,
when in addition to running I began to emit a plaintive
“Mr. Billson! I say, Mr. Billson!” at every second stride,
he seemed to gather that he was among friends.</p>
<p>“Oh, it’s you, is it?” he said, halting.</p>
<p>He was plainly relieved. He produced a murky pipe and
lit it. I delivered my speech of thanks. Having heard me
out, he removed his pipe and put into a few short words the
moral of the whole affair.</p>
<p>“Nobody don’t dot no pals of mine not when I’m
around,” said Mr. Billson.</p>
<p>“It was awfully good of you to trouble,” I said with
feeling.</p>
<p>“No trouble,” said Mr. Billson.</p>
<p>“You must have hit that barman pretty hard. He came
out at about forty miles an hour.”</p>
<p>“I dotted him,” agreed Mr. Billson.</p>
<p>“I’m afraid he has hurt your eye,” I said, sympathetically.</p>
<p>“Him!” said Mr. Billson, expectorating with scorn.
“That wasn’t him. That was his pals. Six or seven of
’em there was.”</p>
<p>“And did you dot them too?” I cried, amazed at the
prowess of this wonder-man.</p>
<p>“’R!” said Mr. Billson. He smoked awhile. “But I
dotted ’im most,” he proceeded. He looked at me with
honest warmth, his chivalrous heart plainly stirred to its
depths. “The idea,” he said, disgustedly, “of a ——
—— ’is size”—he defined the barman crisply and, as far as
I could judge after so brief an acquaintanceship, accurately—“goin’
and dottin’ a little —— —— like you!”</p>
<p>The sentiment was so admirable that I could not take
exception to its phraseology. Nor did I rebel at being
called “little.” To a man of Mr. Billson’s mould I supposed
most people looked little.</p>
<p>“Well, I’m very much obliged,” I said.</p>
<p>Mr. Billson smoked in silence.</p>
<p>“Have you been back long?” I asked, for something to
say. Outstanding as were his other merits, he was not
good at keeping a conversation alive.</p>
<p>“Back?” said Mr. Billson.</p>
<p>“Back in London. Ukridge told me that you had gone
to sea again.”</p>
<p>“Say, mister,” exclaimed Mr. Billson, for the first time
seeming to show real interest in my remarks, “you seen
’im lately?”</p>
<p>“Ukridge? Oh, yes, I see him nearly every day.”</p>
<p>“I been tryin’ to find ’im.”</p>
<p>“I can give you his address,” I said. And I wrote it
down on the back of an envelope. Then, having shaken his
hand, I thanked him once more for his courteous assistance
and borrowed my fare back to Civilisation on the Underground,
and we parted with mutual expressions of good
will.</p>
<p>The next step in the march of events was what I shall call
the Episode of the Inexplicable Female. It occurred two
days later. Returning shortly after lunch to my rooms in
Ebury Street, I was met in the hall by Mrs. Bowles, my
landlord’s wife. I greeted her a trifle nervously, for, like
her husband, she always exercised a rather oppressive effect
on me. She lacked Bowles’s ambassadorial dignity, but
made up for it by a manner so peculiarly sepulchral that
strong men quailed before her pale gaze. Scotch by birth,
she had an eye that looked as if it was for ever searching for
astral bodies wrapped in winding-sheets—this, I believe,
being a favourite indoor sport among certain sets in North
Britain.</p>
<p>“Sir,” said Mrs. Bowles, “there is a body in your sitting-room.”</p>
<p>“A body!” I am bound to say that this Phillips-Oppenheim-like
opening to the conversation gave me something
of a shock. Then I remembered her nationality.
“Oh, you mean a man?”</p>
<p>“A woman,” corrected Mrs. Bowles. “A body in a pink
hat.”</p>
<p>I was conscious of a feeling of guilt. In this pure and
modest house, female bodies in pink hats seemed to require
explanation. I felt that the correct thing to do would have
been to call upon Heaven to witness that this woman was
nothing to me, nothing.</p>
<p>“I was to give you this letter, sir.”</p>
<p>I took it and opened the envelope with a sigh. I had
recognised the handwriting of Ukridge, and for the hundredth
time in our close acquaintanceship there smote me
like a blow the sad suspicion that this man had once more
gone and wished upon me some frightful thing.</p>
<div class="opening"> “My dear old Horse,— </div>
<p class="p1">“It’s not often I ask you to do anything for me...</p>
<p>I laughed hollowly.</p>
<div class="opening"> “My dear old Horse,— </div>
<p class="p1">“It’s not often I ask you to do anything for me, laddie,
but I beg and implore you to rally round now and show
yourself the true friend I know you are. The one thing I’ve
always said about you, Corky my boy, is that you’re a real
pal who never lets a fellow down.</p>
<p>“The bearer of this—a delightful woman, you’ll like her—is
Flossie’s mother. She’s up for the day by excursion
from the North, and it is absolutely vital that she be lushed
up and seen off at Euston at six-forty-five. I can’t look
after her myself, as unfortunately I’m laid up with a
sprained ankle. Otherwise I wouldn’t trouble you.</p>
<p>“This is a life and death matter, old man, and I’m relying
on you. I can’t possibly tell you how important it is that
this old bird should be suitably entertained. The gravest
issues hang on it. So shove on your hat and go to it, laddie,
and blessings will reward you. Tell you all the details
when we meet.</p>
<div class="closure"> “Yours ever,</div>
<div class="signature">“S. F. Ukridge.</div>
<p>“P.S.—I will defray all expenses later.”</p>
<p>Those last words did wring a faint, melancholy smile from
me, but apart from them this hideous document seemed to
me to be entirely free from comic relief. I looked at my
watch and found that it was barely two-thirty. This
female, therefore, was on my hands for a solid four hours
and a quarter. I breathed maledictions—futile, of course,
for it was a peculiar characteristic of the demon Ukridge on
these occasions that, unless one were strong-minded enough
to disregard his frenzied pleadings altogether (a thing which
was nearly always beyond me), he gave one no chance of
escape. He sprang his foul schemes on one at the very last
moment, leaving no opportunity for a graceful refusal.</p>
<p>I proceeded slowly up the stairs to my sitting-room. It
would have been a distinct advantage, I felt, if I had known
who on earth this Flossie was of whom he wrote with such
airy familiarity. The name, though Ukridge plainly
expected it to touch a chord in me, left me entirely unresponsive.
As far as I was aware, there was no Flossie of any
description in my life. I thought back through the years.
Long-forgotten Janes and Kates and Muriels and Elizabeths
rose from the murky depths of my memory as I stirred it,
but no Flossie. It occurred to me as I opened the door that,
if Ukridge was expecting pleasant reminiscences of Flossie
to form a tender bond between me and her mother, he was
building on sandy soil.</p>
<p>The first impression I got on entering the room was that
Mrs. Bowles possessed the true reporter’s gift for picking out
the detail that really mattered. One could have said many
things about Flossie’s mother, as, for instance, that she was
stout, cheerful, and far more tightly laced than a doctor
would have considered judicious; but what stood out above
all the others was the fact that she was wearing a pink hat.
It was the largest, gayest, most exuberantly ornate specimen
of head-wear that I had ever seen, and the prospect of
spending four hours and a quarter in its society added the
last touch to my already poignant gloom. The only gleam
of sunshine that lightened my darkness was the reflection
that, if we went to a picture-palace, she would have to
remove it.</p>
<p>“Er—how do you do?” I said, pausing in the doorway.</p>
<p>“’Ow do you do?” said a voice from under the hat.
“Say ‘’Ow-do-you-do?’ to the gentleman, Cecil.”</p>
<p>I perceived a small, shiny boy by the window. Ukridge,
realising with the true artist’s instinct that the secret of all
successful prose is the knowledge of what to omit, had not
mentioned him in his letter; and, as he turned reluctantly
to go through the necessary civilities, it seemed to me that
the burden was more than I could bear. He was a rat-faced,
sinister-looking boy, and he gazed at me with a frigid
distaste which reminded me of the barman at the Prince of
Wales public-house in Ratcliff Highway.</p>
<p>“I brought Cecil along,” said Flossie’s (and presumably
Cecil’s) mother, after the stripling, having growled a
cautious greeting, obviously with the mental reservation
that it committed him to nothing, had returned to the
window, “because I thought it would be nice for ’im to say
he had seen London.”</p>
<p>“Quite, quite,” I replied, while Cecil, at the window,
gazed darkly out at London as if he did not think much of
it.</p>
<p>“Mr. Ukridge said you would trot us round.”</p>
<p>“Delighted, delighted,” I quavered, looking at the hat
and looking swiftly away again. “I think we had better
go to a picture-palace, don’t you?”</p>
<p>“Naw!” said Cecil. And there was that in his manner
which suggested that when he said “Naw!” it was final.</p>
<p>“Cecil wants to see the sights,” explained his mother.
“We can see all the pictures back at home. ’E’s been
lookin’ forward to seein’ the sights of London. It’ll be an
education for ’im, like, to see all the sights.”</p>
<p>“Westminster Abbey?” I suggested. After all, what
could be better for the lad’s growing mind than to inspect
the memorials of the great past and, if disposed, pick out a
suitable site for his own burial at some later date? Also,
I had a fleeting notion, which a moment’s reflection exploded
before it could bring me much comfort, that women
removed their hats in Westminster Abbey.</p>
<p>“Naw!” said Cecil.</p>
<p>“’E wants to see the murders,” explained Flossie’s
mother.</p>
<p>She spoke as if it were the most reasonable of boyish
desires, but it sounded to me impracticable. Homicides do
not publish formal programmes of their intended activities.
I had no notion what murders were scheduled for to-day.</p>
<p>“’E always reads up all the murders in the Sunday
paper,” went on the parent, throwing light on the matter.</p>
<p>“Oh, I understand,” I said. “Then Madame Tussaud’s
is the spot he wants. They’ve got all the murderers.”</p>
<p>“Naw!” said Cecil.</p>
<p>“It’s the places ’e wants to see,” said Flossie’s mother,
amiably tolerant of my density. “The places where all
them murders was committed. ’E’s clipped out the
addresses and ’e wants to be able to tell ’is friends when he
gets back that ’e’s seen ’em.”</p>
<p>A profound relief surged over me.</p>
<p>“Why, we can do the whole thing in a cab,” I cried.
“We can stay in a cab from start to finish. No need to
leave the cab at all.”</p>
<p>“Or a bus?”</p>
<p>“Not a bus,” I said firmly. I was quite decided on a cab—one
with blinds that would pull down, if possible.</p>
<p>“’Ave it your own way,” said Flossie’s mother, agreeably.
“Speaking as far as I’m personally concerned, I’m shaw
there’s nothing I would rather prefer than a nice ride in a
keb. Jear what the gentleman says, Cecil? You’re goin’
to ride in a keb.”</p>
<p>“Urgh!” said Cecil, as if he would believe it when he
saw it. A sceptical boy.</p>
<p>It was not an afternoon to which I look back as among the
happiest I have spent. For one thing, the expedition far
exceeded my hasty estimates in the matter of expense.
Why it should be so I cannot say, but all the best murders
appear to take place in remote spots like Stepney and Canning
Town, and cab-fares to these places run into money.
Then, again, Cecil’s was not one of those personalities which
become more attractive with familiarity. I should say at a
venture that those who liked him best were those who saw
the least of him. And, finally, there was a monotony about
the entire proceedings which soon began to afflict my nerves.
The cab would draw up outside some mouldering house in
some desolate street miles from civilisation, Cecil would
thrust his unpleasant head out of the window and drink the
place in for a few moments of silent ecstasy, and then he
would deliver his lecture. He had evidently read well and
thoughtfully. He had all the information.</p>
<p>“The Canning Town ’Orror,” he would announce.</p>
<p>“Yes, dearie?” His mother cast a fond glance at him
and a proud one at me. “In this very ’ouse, was it?”</p>
<p>“In this very ’ouse,” said Cecil, with the gloomy importance
of a confirmed bore about to hold forth on his favourite
subject. “Jimes Potter ’is nime was. ’E was found at
seven in the morning underneaf the kitchen sink wiv ’is
froat cut from ear to ear. It was the landlady’s brother
done it. They ’anged ’im at Pentonville.”</p>
<p>Some more data from the child’s inexhaustible store, and
then on to the next historic site.</p>
<p>“The Bing Street ’Orror!”</p>
<p>“In this very ’ouse, dearie?”</p>
<p>“In this very ’ouse. Body was found in the cellar in an
advanced stige of dee-cawm-po-sition wiv its ’ead bashed in,
prezoomably by some blunt instrument.”</p>
<p>At six-forty-six, ignoring the pink hat which protruded
from the window of a third-class compartment and the stout
hand that waved a rollicking farewell, I turned from the
train with a pale, set face, and, passing down the platform
of Euston Station, told a cabman to take me with all speed
to Ukridge’s lodgings in Arundel Street, Leicester Square.
There had never, so far as I knew, been a murder in Arundel
Street, but I was strongly of opinion that that time was ripe.
Cecil’s society and conversation had done much to neutralise
the effects of a gentle upbringing, and I toyed almost luxuriously
with the thought of supplying him with an Arundel
Street Horror for his next visit to the Metropolis.</p>
<p>“Aha, laddie,” said Ukridge, as I entered. “Come in,
old horse. Glad to see you. Been wondering when you
would turn up.”</p>
<p>He was in bed, but that did not remove the suspicion
which had been growing in me all the afternoon that he was
a low malingerer. I refused to believe for a moment in that
sprained ankle of his. My view was that he had had the
advantage of a first look at Flossie’s mother and her engaging
child and had shrewdly passed them on to me.</p>
<p>“I’ve been reading your book, old man,” said Ukridge,
breaking a pregnant silence with an overdone carelessness.
He brandished winningly the only novel I had ever written,
and I can offer no better proof of the black hostility of my
soul than the statement that even this did not soften me.
“It’s immense, laddie. No other word for it. Immense.
Damme, I’ve been crying like a child.”</p>
<p>“It is supposed to be a humorous novel,” I pointed out,
coldly.</p>
<p>“Crying with laughter,” explained Ukridge, hurriedly.</p>
<p>I eyed him with loathing.</p>
<p>“Where do you keep your blunt instruments?” I asked.</p>
<p>“My what?”</p>
<p>“Your blunt instrument. I want a blunt instrument.
Give me a blunt instrument. My God! Don’t tell me you
have no blunt instrument.”</p>
<p>“Only a safety-razor.”</p>
<p>I sat down wearily on the bed.</p>
<p>“Hi! Mind my ankle!”</p>
<p>“Your ankle!” I laughed a hideous laugh, the sort of
laugh the landlady’s brother might have emitted before
beginning operations on James Potter. “A lot there is the
matter with your ankle.”</p>
<p>“Sprained it yesterday, old man. Nothing serious,” said
Ukridge, reassuringly. “Just enough to lay me up for a
couple of days.”</p>
<p>“Yes, till that ghastly female and her blighted boy had
got well away.”</p>
<p>Pained astonishment was written all over Ukridge’s face.</p>
<p>“You don’t mean to say you didn’t like her? Why, I
thought you two would be all over each other.”</p>
<p>“And I suppose you thought that Cecil and I would be
twin souls?”</p>
<p>“Cecil?” said Ukridge, doubtfully. “Well, to tell you
the truth, old man, I’m not saying that Cecil doesn’t take a
bit of knowing. He’s the sort of boy you have to be patient
with and bring out, if you understand what I mean. I think
he grows on you.”</p>
<p>“If he ever tries to grow on me, I’ll have him amputated.”</p>
<p>“Well, putting all that on one side,” said Ukridge, “how
did things go off?”</p>
<p>I described the afternoon’s activities in a few tense words.</p>
<p>“Well, I’m sorry, old horse,” said Ukridge, when I had
finished. “I can’t say more than that, can I? I’m sorry.
I give you my solemn word I didn’t know what I was letting
you in for. But it was a life and death matter. There was
no other way out. Flossie insisted on it. Wouldn’t budge
an inch.”</p>
<p>In my anguish I had forgotten all about the impenetrable
mystery of Flossie.</p>
<p>“Who the devil is Flossie?” I asked.</p>
<p>“What! Flossie? You don’t know who Flossie is?
My dear old man, collect yourself. You must remember
Flossie. The barmaid at the Crown in Kennington. The
girl Battling Billson is engaged to. Surely you haven’t
forgotten Flossie? Why, she was saying only yesterday
that you had nice eyes.”</p>
<p>Memory awoke. I felt ashamed that I could ever have
forgotten a girl so bounding and spectacular.</p>
<p>“Of course! The blister you brought with you that
night George Tupper gave us dinner at the Regent Grill.
By the way, has George ever forgiven you for that?”</p>
<p>“There is still a little coldness,” admitted Ukridge, ruefully.
“I’m bound to say old Tuppy seems to be letting
the thing rankle a bit. The fact of the matter is, old horse,
Tuppy has his limitations. He isn’t a real friend like you.
Delightful fellow, but lacks vision. Can’t understand that
there are certain occasions when it is simply imperative
that a man’s pals rally round him. Now you——”</p>
<p>“Well, I’ll tell you one thing. I am hoping that what I
went through this afternoon really was for some good cause.
I should be sorry, now that I am in a cooler frame of mind,
to have to strangle you where you lie. Would you mind
telling me exactly what was the idea behind all this?”</p>
<p>“It’s like this, laddie. Good old Billson blew in to see
me the other day.”</p>
<p>“I met him down in the East End and he asked for your
address.”</p>
<p>“Yes, he told me.”</p>
<p>“What’s going on? Are you still managing him?”</p>
<p>“Yes. That’s what he wanted to see me about. Apparently
the contract has another year to run and he can’t fix
up anything without my O.K. And he’s just had an offer
to fight a bloke called Alf Todd at the Universal.”</p>
<p>“That’s a step up from Wonderland,” I said, for I had a
solid respect for this Mecca of the boxing world. “How
much is he getting this time?”</p>
<p>“Two hundred quid.”</p>
<p>“Two hundred quid! But that’s a lot for practically an
unknown man.”</p>
<p>“Unknown man?” said Ukridge, hurt. “What do you
mean, unknown man? If you ask my opinion, I should say
the whole pugilistic world is seething with excitement about
old Billson. Literally seething. Didn’t he slosh the
middleweight champion?”</p>
<p>“Yes, in a rough-and-tumble in a back alley. And
nobody saw him do it.”</p>
<p>“Well, these things get about.”</p>
<p>“But two hundred pounds!”</p>
<p>“A fleabite, laddie, a fleabite. You can take it from me
that we shall be asking a lot more than a measly couple of
hundred for our services pretty soon. Thousands, thousands!
Still, I’m not saying it won’t be something to be
going on with. Well, as I say, old Billson came to me and
said he had had this offer, and how about it? And when I
realised that I was in halves, I jolly soon gave him my blessing
and told him to go as far as he liked. So you can
imagine how I felt when Flossie put her foot down like this.”</p>
<p>“Like what? About ten minutes ago when you started
talking, you seemed to be on the point of explaining about
Flossie. How does she come to be mixed up with the
thing? What did she do?”</p>
<p>“Only wanted to stop the whole business, laddie, that
was all. Just put the kybosh on the entire works. Said he
mustn’t fight!”</p>
<p>“Mustn’t fight?”</p>
<p>“That was what she said. Just in that airy, careless
way, as if the most stupendous issues didn’t hang on his
fighting as he had never fought before. Said—if you’ll
believe me, laddie; I shan’t blame you if you don’t—that
she didn’t want his looks spoiled.” Ukridge gazed at me
with lifted eyebrows while he let this evidence of feminine
perverseness sink in. “His looks, old man! You got the
word correctly? His looks! She didn’t want his looks
spoiled. Why, damme, he hasn’t got any looks. There
isn’t any possible manner in which you could treat that
man’s face without improving it. I argued with her by the
hour, but no, she couldn’t see it. Avoid women, laddie,
they have no intelligence.”</p>
<p>“Well, I’ll promise to avoid Flossie’s mother, if that’ll
satisfy you. How does she come into the thing?”</p>
<p>“Now, there’s a woman in a million, my boy. She saved
the situation. She came along at the eleventh hour and
snatched your old friend out of the soup. It seems she has
a habit of popping up to London at intervals, and Flossie,
while she loves and respects her, finds that from ten minutes
to a quarter of an hour of the old dear gives her the pip to
such an extent that she’s a nervous wreck for days.”</p>
<p>I felt my heart warm to the future Mrs. Billson. Despite
Ukridge’s slurs, a girl, it seemed to me, of the soundest
intelligence.</p>
<p>“So when Flossie told me—with tears in her eyes, poor
girl—that mother was due to-day, I had the inspiration of a
lifetime. Said I would take her off her hands from start
to finish if she would agree to let Billson fight at the Universal.
Well, it shows you what family affection is, laddie;
she jumped at it. I don’t mind telling you she broke down
completely and kissed me on both cheeks. The rest, old
horse, you know.”</p>
<p>“Yes. The rest I do know.”</p>
<p>“Never,” said Ukridge, solemnly, “never, old son, till
the sands of the desert grow cold, shall I forget how you
have stood by me this day!”</p>
<p>“Oh, all right. I expect in about a week from now you
will be landing me with something equally foul.”</p>
<p>“Now, laddie——”</p>
<p>“When does this fight come off?”</p>
<p>“A week from to-night. I’m relying on you to be at my
side. Tense nervous strain, old man; shall want a pal to
see me through.”</p>
<p>“I wouldn’t miss it for worlds. I’ll give you dinner
before we go there, shall I?”</p>
<p>“Spoken like a true friend,” said Ukridge, warmly.
“And on the following night I will stand you the banquet
of your life. A banquet which will ring down the ages.
For, mark you, laddie, I shall be in funds. In funds, my
boy.”</p>
<p>“Yes, if Billson wins. What does he get if he loses?”</p>
<p>“Loses? He won’t lose. How the deuce can he lose?
I’m surprised at you talking in that silly way when you’ve
seen him only a few days ago. Didn’t he strike you as being
pretty fit when you saw him?”</p>
<p>“Yes, by Jove, he certainly did.”</p>
<p>“Well, then! Why, it looks to me as if the sea air had
made him tougher than ever. I’ve only just got my fingers
straightened out after shaking hands with him. He could
win the heavyweight championship of the world to-morrow
without taking his pipe out of his mouth. Alf Todd,” said
Ukridge, soaring to an impressive burst of imagery, “has
about as much chance as a one-armed blind man in a dark
room trying to shove a pound of melted butter into a wildcat’s
left ear with a red-hot needle.”</p>
<p>Although I knew several of the members, for one reason or
another I had never been inside the Universal Sporting Club,
and the atmosphere of the place when we arrived on the
night of the fight impressed me a good deal. It was vastly
different from Wonderland, the East End home of pugilism
where I had witnessed the Battler make his début. There,
a certain laxness in the matter of costume had been the prevailing
note; here, white shirt-fronts gleamed on every side.
Wonderland, moreover, had been noisy. Patrons of sport
had so far forgotten themselves as to whistle through their
fingers and shout badinage at distant friends. At the
Universal one might have been in church. In fact, the
longer I sat, the more ecclesiastical did the atmosphere
seem to become. When we arrived, two acolytes in the
bantam class were going devoutly through the ritual under
the eye of the presiding minister, while a large congregation
looked on in hushed silence. As we took our seats, this
portion of the service came to an end and the priest announced
that Nippy Coggs was the winner. A reverent
murmur arose for an instant from the worshippers, Nippy
Coggs disappeared into the vestry, and after a pause of a
few minutes I perceived the familiar form of Battling Billson
coming up the aisle.</p>
<p>There was no doubt about it, the Battler did look good.
His muscles seemed more cable-like than ever, and a recent
hair-cut had given a knobby, bristly appearance to his head
which put him even more definitely than before in the class
of those with whom the sensible man would not lightly
quarrel. Mr. Todd, his antagonist, who followed him a
moment later, was no beauty—the almost complete absence
of any division between his front hair and his eyebrows
would alone have prevented him being that—but he lacked
a certain <i>je-ne-sais-quoi</i> which the Battler pre-eminently
possessed. From the first instant of his appearance in the
public eye our man was a warm favourite. There was a
pleased flutter in the pews as he took his seat, and I could
hear whispered voices offering substantial bets on him.</p>
<p>“Six-round bout,” announced the <i>padre.</i> “Battling
Billson (Bermondsey) versus Alf Todd (Marylebone).
Gentlemen will kindly stop smoking.”</p>
<p>The congregation relit their cigars and the fight began.</p>
<p>Bearing in mind how vitally Ukridge’s fortunes were
bound up in his protégé’s success to-night, I was relieved to
observe that Mr. Todd opened the proceedings in a manner
that seemed to offer little scope for any display of Battling
Billson’s fatal kind-heartedness. I had not forgotten how
at Wonderland our Battler, with the fight in hand, had
allowed victory to be snatched from him purely through a
sentimental distaste for being rough with his adversary, a
man who had had a lot of trouble and had touched Mr.
Billson’s heart thereby. Such a disaster was unlikely to
occur to-night. It was difficult to see how anyone in the
same ring with him could possibly be sorry for Alf Todd. A
tender pity was the last thing his behaviour was calculated
to rouse in the bosom of an opponent. Directly the gong
sounded, he tucked away what little forehead Nature had
given him beneath his fringe, breathed loudly through his
nose, and galloped into the fray. He seemed to hold no
bigoted views as to which hand it was best to employ as a
medium of attack. Right or left, it was all one to Alf.
And if he could not hit Mr. Billson with his hands, he was
perfectly willing, so long as the eye of authority was not too
keenly vigilant, to butt him with his head. Broad-minded—that
was Alf Todd.</p>
<p>Wilberforce Billson, veteran of a hundred fights on a
hundred scattered water-fronts, was not backward in joining
the revels. In him Mr. Todd found a worthy and a willing
playmate. As Ukridge informed me in a hoarse whisper
while the vicar was reproaching Alf for placing an elbow
where no elbow should have been, this sort of thing was as
meat and drink to Wilberforce. It was just the kind of warfare
he had been used to all his life, and precisely the sort
most calculated to make him give of his best—a dictum
which was strikingly endorsed a moment later, when, after
some heated exchanges in which, generous donor though he
was, he had received more than he had bestowed, Mr. Todd
was compelled to slither back and do a bit of fancy side-stepping.
The round came to an end with the Battler distinctly
leading on points, and so spirited had it been that
applause broke out in various parts of the edifice.</p>
<p>The second round followed the same general lines as the
first. The fact that up to now he had been foiled in his
attempts to resolve Battling Billson into his component
parts had had no damping effect on Alf Todd’s ardour. He
was still the same active, energetic soul, never sparing himself
in his efforts to make the party go. There was a wholehearted
abandon in his rushes which reminded one of a
short-tempered gorilla trying to get at its keeper. Occasionally
some extra warmth on the part of his antagonist
would compel him to retire momentarily into a clinch, but
he always came out of it as ready as ever to resume the argument.
Nevertheless, at the end of round two he was still a
shade behind. Round three added further points to the
Battler’s score, and at the end of round four Alf Todd had
lost so much ground that the most liberal odds were required
to induce speculators to venture their cash on his chances.</p>
<p>And then the fifth round began, and those who a minute
before had taken odds of three to one on the Battler and
openly proclaimed the money as good as in their pockets,
stiffened in their seats or bent forward with pale and anxious
faces. A few brief moments back it had seemed to them
incredible that this sure thing could come unstitched.
There was only this round and the next to go—a mere six
minutes of conflict; and Mr. Billson was so far ahead on
points that nothing but the accident of his being knocked
out could lose him the decision. And you had only to look
at Wilberforce Billson to realise the absurdity of his being
knocked out. Even I, who had seen him go through the
process at Wonderland, refused to consider the possibility.
If ever there was a man in the pink, it was Wilberforce
Billson.</p>
<p>But in boxing there is always the thousandth chance. As
he came out of his corner for round five, it suddenly became
plain that things were not well with our man. Some chance
blow in that last melee of round four must have found a vital
spot, for he was obviously in bad shape. Incredible as it
seemed, Battling Billson was groggy. He shuffled rather
than stepped; he blinked in a manner damping to his
supporters; he was clearly finding increasing difficulty in
foiling the boisterous attentions of Mr. Todd. Sibilant
whispers arose; Ukridge clutched my arm in an agonised
grip; voices were offering to bet on Alf; and in the
Battler’s corner, their heads peering through the ropes,
those members of the minor clergy who had been told off to
second our man were wan with apprehension.</p>
<p>Mr. Todd, for his part, was a new man. He had retired
to his corner at the end of the preceding round with the
moody step of one who sees failure looming ahead. “I’m
always chasing rainbows,” Mr. Todd’s eye had seemed to
say as it rested gloomily on the resined floor. “Another
dream shattered!” And he had come out for round five
with the sullen weariness of the man who has been helping
to amuse the kiddies at a children’s party and has had
enough of it. Ordinary politeness rendered it necessary for
him to see this uncongenial business through to the end, but
his heart was no longer in it.</p>
<p>And then, instead of the steel and india-rubber warrior
who had smitten him so sorely at their last meeting, he
found this sagging wreck. For an instant sheer surprise
seemed to shackle Mr. Todd’s limbs, then he adjusted himself
to the new conditions. It was as if somebody had
grafted monkey-glands on to Alfred Todd. He leaped at
Battling Billson, and Ukridge’s grip on my arm became
more painful than ever.</p>
<p>A sudden silence fell upon the house. It was a tense,
expectant silence, for affairs had reached a crisis. Against
the ropes near his corner the Battler was leaning, heedless
of the well-meant counsel of his seconds, and Alf Todd, with
his fringe now almost obscuring his eyes, was feinting for an
opening. There is a tide in the affairs of men which, taken
at the flood, leads on to fortune; and Alf Todd plainly
realised this. He fiddled for an instant with his hands, as
if he were trying to mesmerise Mr. Billson, then plunged
forward.</p>
<p>A great shout went up. The congregation appeared to
have lost all sense of what place this was that they were in.
They were jumping up and down in their seats and bellowing
deplorably. For the crisis had been averted. Somehow
or other Wilberforce Billson had contrived to escape
from that corner, and now he was out in the middle of the
ring, respited.</p>
<p>And yet he did not seem pleased. His usually expressionless
face was contorted with pain and displeasure. For the
first time in the entire proceedings he appeared genuinely
moved. Watching him closely, I could see his lips moving,
perhaps in prayer. And as Mr. Todd, bounding from the
ropes, advanced upon him, he licked those lips. He licked
them in a sinister meaning way, and his right hand dropped
slowly down below his knee.</p>
<p>Alf Todd came on. He came jauntily and in the manner
of one moving to a feast or festival. This was the end of a
perfect day, and he knew it. He eyed Battling Billson as if
the latter had been a pot of beer. But for the fact that he
came of a restrained and unemotional race, he would doubtless
have burst into song. He shot out his left and it landed
on Mr. Billson’s nose. Nothing happened. He drew back
his right and poised it almost lovingly for a moment. It
was during this moment that Battling Billson came to
life.</p>
<p>To Alf Todd it must have seemed like a resurrection.
For the last two minutes he had been testing in every way
known to science his theory that this man before him no
longer possessed the shadow of a punch, and the theory had
seemed proven up to the hilt. Yet here he was now behaving
like an unleashed whirlwind. A disquieting experience.
The ropes collided with the small of Alf Todd’s back.
Something else collided with his chin. He endeavoured to
withdraw, but a pulpy glove took him on the odd fungoid
growth which he was accustomed laughingly to call his ear.
Another glove impinged upon his jaw. And there the
matter ended for Alf Todd.</p>
<p>“Battling Billson is the winner,” intoned the vicar.</p>
<p>“Wow!” shouted the congregation.</p>
<p>“Whew!” breathed Ukridge in my ear.</p>
<p>It had been a near thing, but the old firm had pulled
through at the finish.</p>
<p>Ukridge bounded off to the dressing-room to give his
Battler a manager’s blessing; and presently, the next fight
proving something of an anti-climax after all the fevered
stress of its predecessor, I left the building and went home.
I was smoking a last pipe before going to bed when a violent
ring at the front-door bell broke in on my meditations. It
was followed by the voice of Ukridge in the hall.</p>
<p>I was a little surprised. I had not been expecting to see
Ukridge again to-night. His intention when we parted at
the Universal had been to reward Mr. Billson with a bit of
supper; and, as the Battler had a coy distaste for the
taverns of the West End, this involved a journey to the far
East, where in congenial surroundings the coming champion
would drink a good deal of beer and eat more hard-boiled
eggs than you would have believed possible. The fact that
the host was now thundering up my stairs seemed to indicate
that the feast had fallen through. And the fact that
the feast had fallen through suggested that something had
gone wrong.</p>
<p>“Give me a drink, old horse,” said Ukridge, bursting into
the room.</p>
<p>“What on earth’s the matter?”</p>
<p>“Nothing, old horse, nothing. I’m a ruined man, that’s
all.”</p>
<p>He leaped feverishly at the decanter and siphon which
Bowles had placed upon the table. I watched him with
concern. This could be no ordinary tragedy that had
changed him thus from the ebullient creature of joy who
had left me at the Universal. A thought flashed through
my mind that Battling Billson must have been disqualified—to
be rejected a moment later, when I remembered that
fighters are not disqualified as an after-thought half an
hour after the fight. But what else could have brought
about this anguish? If ever there was an occasion
for solemn rejoicing, now would have seemed to be the
time.</p>
<p>“What’s the matter?” I asked again.</p>
<p>“Matter? I’ll tell you what’s the matter,” moaned
Ukridge. He splashed seltzer into his glass. He reminded
me of King Lear. “Do you know how much I get out of
that fight to-night? Ten quid! Just ten rotten contemptible
sovereigns! That’s what’s the matter.”</p>
<p>“I don’t understand.”</p>
<p>“The purse was thirty pounds. Twenty for the winner.
My share is ten. Ten, I’ll trouble you! What in the name
of everything infernal is the good of ten quid?”</p>
<p>“But you said Billson told you——”</p>
<p>“Yes, I know I did. Two hundred was what he told me
he was to get. And the weak-minded, furtive, under-handed
son of Belial didn’t explain that he was to get it for
losing!”</p>
<p>“Losing?”</p>
<p>“Yes. He was to get it for losing. Some fellows who
wanted a chance to do some heavy betting persuaded him to
sell the fight.”</p>
<p>“But he didn’t sell the fight.”</p>
<p>“I know that, dammit. That’s the whole trouble. And
do you know why he didn’t? I’ll tell you. Just as he was
all ready to let himself be knocked out in that fifth round,
the other bloke happened to tread on his ingrowing toe-nail,
and that made him so mad that he forgot about everything
else and sailed in and hammered the stuffing out of him. I
ask you, laddie! I appeal to you as a reasonable man.
Have you ever in your life heard of such a footling, idiotic,
woollen-headed proceeding? Throwing away a fortune,
an absolute dashed fortune, purely to gratify a momentary
whim! Hurling away wealth beyond the dreams of avarice
simply because a bloke stamped on his ingrowing toe-nail.
His ingrowing toe-nail!” Ukridge laughed raspingly.
“What right has a boxer to <i>have</i> an ingrowing toe-nail?
And if he has an ingrowing toe-nail, surely—my gosh!—he
can stand a little trifling discomfort for half a minute. The
fact of the matter is, old horse, boxers aren’t what they were.
Degenerate, laddie, absolutely degenerate. No heart. No
courage. No self-respect. No vision. The old bulldog
breed has disappeared entirely.”</p>
<p>And with a moody nod Stanley Featherstonehaugh
Ukridge passed out into the night.</p>
<h2 id="CH6">  CHAPTER VI </h2>
<div class="chtitle">  UKRIDGE SEES HER THROUGH </div>
<p>The girl from the typewriting and stenographic
bureau had a quiet but speaking eye. At
first it had registered nothing but enthusiasm
and the desire to please. But now, rising from
that formidable notebook, it met mine with a look of
exasperated bewilderment. There was an expression of
strained sweetness on her face, as of a good woman unjustly
put upon. I could read what was in her mind as clearly as
if she had been impolite enough to shout it. She thought
me a fool. And as this made the thing unanimous, for I
had been feeling exactly the same myself for the last quarter
of an hour, I decided that the painful exhibition must now
terminate.</p>
<p>It was Ukridge who had let me in for the thing. He had
fired my imagination with tales of authors who were able
to turn out five thousand words a day by dictating their
stuff to a stenographer instead of writing it; and though
I felt at the time that he was merely trying to drum up
trade for the typewriting bureau in which his young friend
Dora Mason was now a partner, the lure of the idea had
gripped me. Like all writers, I had a sturdy distaste for
solid work, and this seemed to offer a pleasant way out,
turning literary composition into a jolly <i>tête-à-tête</i> chat.
It was only when those gleaming eyes looked eagerly into
mine and that twitching pencil poised itself to record the
lightest of my golden thoughts that I discovered what I
was up against. For fifteen minutes I had been experiencing
all the complex emotions of a nervous man who,
suddenly called upon to make a public speech, realises too
late that his brain has been withdrawn and replaced by a
cheap cauliflower substitute: and I was through.</p>
<p>“I’m sorry,” I said, “but I’m afraid it’s not much use
going on. I don’t seem able to manage it.”</p>
<p>Now that I had come frankly out into the open and
admitted my idiocy, the girl’s expression softened. She
closed her notebook forgivingly.</p>
<p>“Lots of people can’t,” she said. “It’s just a knack.”</p>
<p>“Everything seems to go out of my head.”</p>
<p>“I’ve often thought it must be very difficult to dictate.”</p>
<p>Two minds with but a single thought, in fact. Her
sweet reasonableness, combined with the relief that the
thing was over, induced in me a desire to babble. One has
the same feeling when the dentist lets one out of his chair.</p>
<p>“You’re from the Norfolk Street Agency, aren’t you?”
I said. A silly question, seeing that I had expressly rung
them up on the telephone and asked them to send somebody
round; but I was still feeling the effects of the ether.</p>
<p>“Yes.”</p>
<p>“That’s in Norfolk Street, isn’t it? I mean,” I went on
hurriedly, “I wonder if you know a Miss Mason there?
Miss Dora Mason.”</p>
<p>She seemed surprised.</p>
<p>“My name is Dora Mason,” she said.</p>
<p>I was surprised, too. I had not supposed that partners
in typewriting businesses stooped to going out on these
errands. And I was conscious of a return of my former
embarrassment, feeling—quite unreasonably, for I had
only seen her once in my life, and then from a distance—that
I ought to have remembered her.</p>
<p>“We were short-handed at the office,” she explained,
“so I came along. But how do you know my name?”</p>
<p>“I am a great friend of Ukridge’s.”</p>
<p>“Why, of course! I was wondering why your name
was so familiar. I’ve heard him talk so much about you.”</p>
<p>And after that we really did settle down to the cosy
 <i>tête-à-tête </i> of which I had had visions. She was a nice girl,
the only noticeable flaw in her character being an absurd
respect for Ukridge’s intelligence and abilities. I, who
had known that foe of the human race from boyhood up
and was still writhing beneath the memory of the night
when he had sneaked my dress clothes, could have corrected
her estimate of him, but it seemed unkind to shatter her
girlish dreams.</p>
<p>“He was wonderful about this type-writing business,”
she said. “It was such a splendid opportunity, and but
for Mr. Ukridge I should have had to let it slip. You see,
they were asking two hundred pounds for the partnership,
and I only had a hundred. And Mr. Ukridge insisted on
putting up the rest of the money. You see—I don’t know
if he told you—he insisted that he ought to do something
because he says he lost me the position I had with his aunt.
It wasn’t his fault at all, really, but he kept saying that if
I hadn’t gone to that dance with him I shouldn’t have got
back late and been dismissed. So——”</p>
<p>She was a rapid talker, and it was only now that I was
able to comment on the amazing statement which she had
made in the opening portion of her speech. So stunning
had been the effect of those few words on me that I had
hardly heard her subsequent remarks.</p>
<p>“Did you say that Ukridge insisted on finding the rest?”
I gasped.</p>
<p>“Yes. Wasn’t it nice of him?”</p>
<p>“He gave you a hundred pounds? Ukridge!”</p>
<p>“Guaranteed it,” said Miss Mason. “I arranged to pay
a hundred pounds down and the rest in sixty days.”</p>
<p>“But suppose the rest is not paid in sixty days?”</p>
<p>“Well, then I’m afraid I should lose my hundred. But
it will be, of course. Mr. Ukridge told me to have no
anxiety about that at all. Well, good-bye, Mr. Corcoran.
I must be going now. I’m sorry we didn’t get better
results with the dictating. I should think it must be very
difficult to do till you get used to it.”</p>
<p>Her cheerful smile as she went out struck me as one of
the most pathetic sights I had ever seen. Poor child,
bustling off so brightly when her whole future rested on
Ukridge’s ability to raise a hundred pounds! I presumed
that he was relying on one of those Utopian schemes of his
which were to bring him in thousands—“at a conservative
estimate, laddie!”—and not for the first time in a friendship
of years the reflection came to me that Ukridge ought to
be in some sort of a home. A capital fellow in many
respects, but not a man lightly to be allowed at large.</p>
<p>I was pursuing this train of thought when the banging
of the front door, followed by a pounding of footsteps on
the stairs and a confused noise without, announced his
arrival.</p>
<p>“I say, laddie,” said Ukridge, entering the room, as was
his habit, like a north-easterly gale, “was that Dora Mason
I saw going down the street? It looked like her back.
Has she been here?”</p>
<p>“Yes. I asked her agency to send someone to take
dictation, and she came.”</p>
<p>Ukridge reached out for the tobacco jar, filled his pipe,
replenished his pouch, sank comfortably on to the sofa,
adjusted the cushions, and bestowed an approving glance
upon me.</p>
<p>“Corky, my boy,” said Ukridge, “what I like about
you and the reason why I always maintain that you will be
a great man one of these days is that you have Vision.
You have the big, broad, flexible outlook. You’re not too
proud to take advice. I say to you, ‘Dictate your stuff,
it’ll pay you,’ and, damme, you go straight off and do it.
No arguing or shilly-shallying. You just go and do it.
It’s the spirit that wins to success. I like to see it. Dictating
will add thousands a year to your income. I say it
advisedly, laddie—thousands. And if you continue leading
a steady and sober life and save your pennies, you’ll be
amazed at the way your capital will pile up. Money at
five per cent. compound interest doubles itself every fourteen
years. By the time you’re forty——”</p>
<p>It seemed churlish to strike a jarring note after all these
compliments, but it had to be done.</p>
<p>“Never mind about what’s going to happen to me when
I’m forty,” I said. “What I want to know is what is all
this I hear about you guaranteeing Miss Mason a hundred
quid?”</p>
<p>“Ah, she told you? Yes,” said Ukridge, airily, “I
guaranteed it. Matter of conscience, old son. Man of
honour, no alternative. You see, there’s no getting away
from it, it was my fault that she was sacked by my aunt.
Got to see her through, laddie, got to see her through.”</p>
<p>I goggled at the man.</p>
<p>“Look here,” I said, “let’s get this thing straight. A
couple of days ago you touched me for five shillings and
said it would save your life.”</p>
<p>“It did, old man, it did.”</p>
<p>“And now you’re talking of scattering hundred quids
about the place as if you were Rothschild. Do you smoke
it or inject it with a hypodermic needle?”</p>
<p>There was pain in Ukridge’s eyes as he sat up and gazed
at me through the smoke.</p>
<p>“I don’t like this tone, laddie,” he said, reproachfully.
“Upon my Sam, it wounds me. It sounds as if you had
lost faith in me, in my vision.”</p>
<p>“Oh, I know you’ve got vision. And the big, broad,
flexible outlook. Also snap, ginger, enterprise, and ears
that stick out at right angles like the sails of a windmill.
But that doesn’t help me to understand where on earth
you expect to get a hundred quid.”</p>
<p>Ukridge smiled tolerantly.</p>
<p>“You don’t suppose I would have guaranteed the money
for poor little Dora unless I knew where to lay my hands
on it, do you? If you ask me, Have I got the stuff at
this precise moment? I candidly reply, No, I haven’t.
But it’s fluttering on the horizon, laddie, fluttering on the
horizon. I can hear the beating of its wings.”</p>
<p>“Is Battling Billson going to fight someone and make
your fortune again?”</p>
<p>Ukridge winced, and the look of pain flitted across his
face once more.</p>
<p>“Don’t mention that man’s name to me, old horse,” he
begged. “Every time I think of him everything seems to
go all black. No, the thing I have on hand now is a real
solid business proposition. Gilt-edged, you might call it.
I ran into a bloke the other day whom I used to know out
in Canada.”</p>
<p>“I didn’t know you had ever been in Canada,” I interrupted.</p>
<p>“Of course I’ve been in Canada. Go over there and ask
the first fellow you meet if I was ever in Canada. Canada!
I should say I had been in Canada. Why, when I left
Canada, I was seen off on the steamer by a couple of policemen.
Well, I ran into this bloke in Piccadilly. He was
wandering up and down and looking rather lost. Couldn’t
make out what the deuce he was doing over here, because,
when I knew him, he hadn’t a cent. Well, it seems that he
got fed up with Canada and went over to America to try
and make his fortune. And, by Jove, he did, first crack
out of the box. Bought a bit of land about the size of a
pocket-handkerchief in Texas or Oklahoma or somewhere,
and one morning, when he was hoeing the soil or planting
turnips or something, out buzzed a whacking great oil-well.
Apparently that sort of thing’s happening every
day out there. If I could get a bit of capital together,
I’m dashed if I wouldn’t go to Texas myself. Great open
spaces where men are men, laddie—suit me down to the
ground. Well, we got talking, and he said that he intended
to settle in England. Came from London as a kid, but
couldn’t stick it at any price now because they had altered
it so much. I told him the thing for him to do was to buy
a house in the country with a decent bit of shooting, and he
said, ‘Well, how do you buy a house in the country with a
decent bit of shooting?’ and I said, ‘Leave it entirely in
my hands, old horse. I’ll see you’re treated right.’ So
he told me to go ahead, and I went to Farmingdons, the
house-agent blokes in Cavendish Square. Had a chat
with the manager. Very decent old bird with moth-eaten
whiskers. I said I’d got a millionaire looking for a house
in the country. ‘Find him one, laddie,’ I said, ‘and we
split the commish.’ He said ‘Right-o,’ and any day now
I expect to hear that he’s dug up something suitable.
Well, you can see for yourself what that’s going to mean.
These house-agent fellows take it as a personal affront if a
client gets away from them with anything except a collar-stud
and the clothes he stands up in, and I’m in halves.
Reason it out, my boy, reason it out.”</p>
<p>“You’re sure this man really has money?”</p>
<p>“Crawling with it, laddie. Hasn’t found out yet there’s
anything smaller than a five-pound note in circulation.
He took me to lunch, and when he tipped the waiter the
man burst into tears and kissed him on both cheeks.”</p>
<p>I am bound to admit that I felt easier in my mind, for
it really did seem as though the fortunes of Miss Mason
rested on firm ground. I had never supposed that Ukridge
could be associated with so sound a scheme, and I said so.
In fact, I rather overdid my approval, for it encouraged
him to borrow another five shillings; and before he left
we were in treaty over a further deal which was to entail
my advancing him half a sovereign in one solid payment.
Business breeds business.</p>
<p>For the next ten days I saw nothing of Ukridge. As he
was in the habit of making these periodical disappearances,
I did not worry unduly as to the whereabouts of my wandering
boy, but I was conscious from time to time of a mild
wonder as to what had become of him. The mystery was
solved one night when I was walking through Pall Mall on
my way home after a late session with an actor acquaintance
who was going into vaudeville, and to whom I hoped,—mistakenly,
as it turned out—to sell a one-act play.</p>
<p>I say night, but it was nearly two in the morning. The
streets were black and deserted, silence was everywhere, and
all London slept except Ukridge and a friend of his whom
I came upon standing outside Hardy’s fishing tackle shop.
That is to say, Ukridge was standing outside the shop.
His friend was sitting on the pavement with his back
against a lamp-post.</p>
<p>As far as I could see in the uncertain light, he was a
man of middle age, rugged of aspect and grizzled about the
temples. I was able to inspect his temples because—doubtless
from the best motives—he was wearing his hat on
his left foot. He was correctly clad in dress clothes, but
his appearance was a little marred by a splash of mud
across his shirt-front and the fact that at some point earlier
in the evening he had either thrown away or been deprived
of his tie. He gazed fixedly at the hat with a poached-egg-like
stare. He was the only man I had ever seen who
was smoking two cigars at the same time.</p>
<p>Ukridge greeted me with the warmth of a beleaguered
garrison welcoming the relieving army.</p>
<p>“My dear old horse! Just the man I wanted!” he
cried, as if he had picked me out of a number of competing
applicants. “You can give me a hand with Hank, laddie.”</p>
<p>“Is this Hank!” I enquired, glancing at the recumbent
sportsman, who had now closed his eyes as if the spectacle
of the hat had begun to pall.</p>
<p>“Yes. Hank Philbrick. This is the bloke I was telling
you about, the fellow who wants the house.”</p>
<p>“He doesn’t seem to want any house. He looks quite
satisfied with the great open spaces.”</p>
<p>“Poor old Hank’s a bit under the weather,” explained
Ukridge, regarding his stricken friend with tolerant
sympathy. “It takes him this way. The fact is, old man,
it’s a mistake for these blokes to come into money. They
overdo things. The only thing Hank ever got to drink for
the first fifty years of his life was water, with buttermilk
as a treat on his birthday, and he’s trying to make up for
lost time. He’s only just discovered that there are such
things as liqueurs in the world, and he’s making them
rather a hobby. Says they’re such a pretty colour. It
wouldn’t be so bad if he stuck to one at a time, but he likes
making experiments. Mixes them, laddie. Orders the
whole lot and blends them in a tankard. Well, I mean to
say,” said Ukridge reasonably, “you can’t take more than
five or six tankards of mixed benedictine, chartreuse,
kummel, crème de menthe, and old brandy without feeling
the strain a bit. Especially if you stoke up on champagne
and burgundy.”</p>
<p>A strong shudder ran through me at the thought. I
gazed at the human cellar on the pavement with a feeling
bordering on awe.</p>
<p>“Does he really?”</p>
<p>“Every night for the last two weeks. I’ve been with
him most of the time. I’m the only pal he’s got in London,
and he likes to have me round.”</p>
<p>“What plans have you for his future? His immediate
future, I mean. Do we remove him somewhere or is he
going to spend the night out here under the quiet
stars?”</p>
<p>“I thought, if you would lend a hand, old man, we could
get him to the Carlton. He’s staying there.”</p>
<p>“He won’t be long, if he comes in in this state.”</p>
<p>“Bless you, my dear old man, they don’t mind. He
tipped the night-porter twenty quid yesterday and asked
me if I thought it was enough. Lend a hand, laddie. Let’s
go.”</p>
<p>I lent a hand, and we went.</p>
<p>The effect which that nocturnal encounter had upon me
was to cement the impression that in acting as agent for
Mr. Philbrick in the purchase of a house Ukridge was on to
a good thing. What little I had seen of Hank had convinced
me that he was not the man to be finicky about price. He
would pay whatever they asked him without hesitation.
Ukridge would undoubtedly make enough out of his share
of the commission to pay off Dora Mason’s hundred without
feeling it. Indeed, for the first time in his life he would
probably be in possession of that bit of capital of which he
was accustomed to speak so wistfully. I ceased, therefore,
to worry about Miss Mason’s future and concentrated
myself on my own troubles.</p>
<p>They would probably have seemed to anyone else minor
troubles, but nevertheless they were big enough to depress
me. Two days after my meeting with Ukridge and Mr.
Philbrick in Pall Mall I had received rather a disturbing
letter.</p>
<p>There was a Society paper for which at that time I did
occasional work and wished to do more; and the editor
of this paper had sent me a ticket for the forthcoming
dance of the Pen and Ink Club, with instructions to let him
have a column and a half of bright descriptive matter. It
was only after I had digested the pleasant reflection that
here was a bit of badly needed cash dropping on me out of
a clear sky that I realised why the words Pen and Ink
Club seemed to have a familiar ring. It was the club of
which Ukridge’s aunt Julia was the popular and energetic
president, and the thought of a second meeting with that
uncomfortable woman filled me with a deep gloom. I
had not forgotten—and probably would never forget—my
encounter with her in her drawing-room at Wimbledon.</p>
<p>I was not in a financial position, however, to refuse
editors their whims, so the thing had to be gone through;
but the prospect damped me, and I was still brooding on
it when a violent ring at the front-door bell broke in on
my meditations. It was followed by the booming of
Ukridge’s voice enquiring if I were in. A moment later he
had burst into the room. His eyes were wild, his pince-nez
at an angle of forty-five, and his collar separated from its
stud by a gap of several inches. His whole appearance
clearly indicated some blow of fate, and I was not surprised
when his first words revealed an aching heart.</p>
<p>“Hank Philbrick,” said Ukridge without preamble, “is a
son of Belial, a leper, and a worm.”</p>
<p>“What’s happened now?”</p>
<p>“He’s let me down, the weak-minded Tishbite! Doesn’t
want that house in the country after all. My gosh, if
Hank Philbrick is the sort of man Canada is producing
nowadays, Heaven help the British Empire.”</p>
<p>I shelved my petty troubles. They seemed insignificant
beside this majestic tragedy.</p>
<p>“What made him change his mind?” I asked.</p>
<p>“The wobbling, vacillating hell-hound! I always had
a feeling that there was something wrong with that man.
He had a nasty, shifty eye. You’ll bear me out, laddie,
in that? Haven’t I spoken to you a hundred times about
his shifty eye?”</p>
<p>“Certainly. Why did he change his mind?”</p>
<p>“Didn’t I always say he wasn’t to be trusted?”</p>
<p>“Repeatedly. What made him change his mind?”</p>
<p>Ukridge laughed with a sharp bitterness that nearly
cracked the window-pane. His collar leaped like a live
thing. Ukridge’s collar was always a sort of thermometer
that registered the warmth of his feelings. Sometimes,
when his temperature was normal, it would remain attached
to its stud for minutes at a time; but the slightest touch
of fever sent it jumping up, and the more he was moved
the higher it jumped.</p>
<p>“When I knew Hank out in Canada,” he said, “he had
the constitution of an ox. Ostriches took his correspondence
course in digestion. But directly he comes into a
bit of money——Laddie,” said Ukridge earnestly, “when
I’m a rich man, I want you to stand at my elbow and
watch me very carefully. The moment you see signs of
degeneration speak a warning word. Don’t let me coddle
myself. Don’t let me get fussy about my health. Where
was I? Oh yes. Directly this man comes into a bit of money
he gets the idea that he’s a sort of fragile, delicate flower.”</p>
<p>“I shouldn’t have thought so from what you were
telling me the other night.”</p>
<p>“What happened the other night was the cause of all
the trouble. Naturally he woke up with a bit of a head.”</p>
<p>“I can quite believe it.”</p>
<p>“Yes, but my gosh, what’s a head! In the old days
he would have gone and worked it oft by taking a dose of
pain-killer and chopping down half-a-dozen trees. But
now what happens? Having all this money, he wouldn’t
take a simple remedy like that. No, sir! He went to
one of those Harley Street sharks who charge a couple of
guineas for saying ‘Well, how are we this morning?’ A
fatal move, laddie. Naturally, the shark was all over him.
Tapped him here and prodded him there, said he was
run down, and finally told him he ought to spend six
months in a dry, sunny climate. Recommended Egypt.
Egypt, I’ll trouble you, for a bloke who lived fifty years
thinking that it was a town in Illinois. Well, the long
and the short of it is that he’s gone off for six months,
doesn’t want a place in England, and I hope he gets bitten
by a crocodile. And the lease all drawn out and ready
to sign. Upon my Sam, it’s a little hard. Sometimes I
wonder whether it’s worth while going on struggling.”</p>
<p>A sombre silence fell upon us. Ukridge, sunk in gloomy
reverie, fumbled absently at his collar stud. I smoked
with a heavy heart.</p>
<p>“What will your friend Dora do now?” I said at length.</p>
<p>“That’s what’s worrying me,” said Ukridge, lugubriously.
“I’ve been trying to think of some other way of raising
that hundred, but at the moment I don’t mind confessing
I am baffled. I can see no daylight.”</p>
<p>Nor could I. His chance of raising a hundred pounds
by any means short of breaking into the Mint seemed slight
indeed.</p>
<p>“Odd the way things happen,” I said. I gave him the
editor’s letter. “Look at that.”</p>
<p>“What’s this?”</p>
<p>“He’s sending me to do an article on the Pen and Ink
Club dance. If only I had never been to see your aunt——”</p>
<p>“And made such a mess of it.”</p>
<p>“I didn’t make a mess of it. It just happened that——”</p>
<p>“All right, laddie, all right,” said Ukridge, tonelessly.
“Don’t let’s split straws. The fact remains, whether it’s
your fault or not, the thing was a complete frost. What
were you saying?”</p>
<p>“I was saying that, if only I had never been to your
aunt, I could have met her in a perfectly natural way at
this dance.”</p>
<p>“Done Young Disciple stuff,” said Ukridge, seizing on
the idea. “Rubbed in the fact that you could do her a
bit of good by boosting her in the paper.”</p>
<p>“And asked her to re-engage Miss Mason as her secretary.”</p>
<p>Ukridge fiddled with the letter.</p>
<p>“You don’t think even now——”</p>
<p>I was sorry for him and sorrier for Dora Mason, but on
this point I was firm.</p>
<p>“No, I don’t.”</p>
<p>“But consider, laddie,” urged Ukridge. “At this dance
she may well be in malleable mood. The lights, the music,
the laughter, the jollity.”</p>
<p>“No,” I said. “It can’t be done. I can’t back out of
going to the affair, because if I did I’d never get any more
work to do for this paper. But I’ll tell you one thing. I
mean to keep quite clear of your aunt. That’s final. I
dream of her in the night sometimes and wake up screaming.
And in any case it wouldn’t be any use my tackling her.
She wouldn’t listen to me. It’s too late. You weren’t
there that afternoon at Wimbledon, but you can take it
from me that I’m not one of her circle of friends.”</p>
<p>“That’s the way it always happens,” sighed Ukridge.
“Everything comes too late. Well, I’ll be popping off.
Lot of heavy thinking to do, laddie. Lot of heavy thinking.”</p>
<p>And he left without borrowing even a cigar, a sure sign
that his resilient spirit was crushed beyond recuperation.</p>
<p>The dance of the Pen and Ink Club was held, like so many
functions of its kind, at the Lotus Rooms, Knightsbridge,
that barrack-like building which seems to exist only for
these sad affairs. The Pen and Ink evidently went in for
quality in its membership rather than quantity; and the
band, when I arrived, was giving out the peculiarly tinny
sound which bands always produce in very large rooms
that are only one-sixth part full. The air was chilly and
desolate and a general melancholy seemed to prevail. The
few couples dancing on the broad acres of floor appeared
sombre and introspective, as if they were meditating on
the body upstairs and realizing that all flesh is as grass.
Around the room on those gilt chairs which are only seen
in subscription-dance halls weird beings were talking in
undertones, probably about the trend of Scandinavian
literature. In fact, the only bright spot on the whole
gloomy business was that it occurred before the era of
tortoiseshell-rimmed spectacles.</p>
<p>That curious grey hopelessness which always afflicts me
when I am confronted with literary people in the bulk was
not lightened by the reflection that at any moment I might
encounter Miss Julia Ukridge. I moved warily about the
room, keenly alert, like a cat that has wandered into a
strange alley and sees in every shadow the potential hurler
of a half-brick. I could envisage nothing but awkwardness
and embarrassment springing from such a meeting. The
lesson which I had drawn from my previous encounter
with her was that happiness for me lay in keeping as far
away from Miss Julia Ukridge as possible.</p>
<p>“Excuse me!”</p>
<p>My precautions had been in vain. She had sneaked up
on me from behind.</p>
<p>“Good evening,” I said.</p>
<p>It is never any good rehearsing these scenes in advance.
They always turn out so differently. I had been assuming,
when I slunk into this hall, that if I met this woman I
should feel the same shrinking sense of guilt and inferiority
which had proved so disintegrating at Wimbledon. I had
omitted to make allowances for the fact that that painful
episode had taken place on her own ground, and that
right from the start my conscience had been far from clear.
To-night the conditions were different.</p>
<p>“Are you a member of the Pen and Ink Club?” said
Ukridge’s aunt, frostily.</p>
<p>Her stony blue eyes were fixed on me with an expression
that was not exactly loathing, but rather a cold and critical
contempt. So might a fastidious cook look at a black-beetle
in her kitchen.</p>
<p>“No,” I replied, “I am not.”</p>
<p>I felt bold and hostile. This woman gave me a pain in the
neck, and I endeavoured to express as much in the language
of the eyes.</p>
<p>“Then will you please tell me what you are doing here?
This is a private dance.”</p>
<p>One has one’s moments. I felt much as I presume
Battling Billson must have felt in his recent fight with Alf
Todd, when he perceived his antagonist advancing upon
him wide-open, inviting the knock-out punch.</p>
<p>“The editor of <i>Society </i> sent me a ticket. He wanted an
article written about it.”</p>
<p>If I was feeling like Mr. Billson, Ukridge’s aunt must have
felt very like Mr. Todd. I could see that she was shaken.
In a flash I had changed from a black-beetle to a god-like
creature, able, if conciliated, to do a bit of that log-rolling
which is so dear to the heart of the female novelist. And
she had not conciliated me. Of all sad words of tongue
or pen, the saddest are these: It might have been. It is
too much to say that her jaw fell, but certainly the agony
of this black moment caused her lips to part in a sort of
twisted despair. But there was good stuff in this woman.
She rallied gamely.</p>
<p>“A Press ticket,” she murmured.</p>
<p>“A Press ticket,” I echoed.</p>
<p>“May I see it?”</p>
<p>“Certainly.”</p>
<p>“Thank you.”</p>
<p>“Not at all.”</p>
<p>She passed on.</p>
<p>I resumed my inspection of the dancers with a lighter
heart. In my present uplifted mood they did not appear
so bad as they had a few minutes back. Some of them,
quite a few of them, looked almost human. The floor was
fuller now, and whether owing to my imagination or not,
the atmosphere seemed to have taken on a certain cheeriness.
The old suggestion of a funeral still lingered, but now
it was possible to think of it as a less formal, rather jollier
funeral. I began to be glad that I had come.</p>
<p>“Excuse me!”</p>
<p>I had thought that I was finished with this sort of thing
for the evening, and I turned with a little impatience. It
was a refined tenor voice that had addressed me, and it was
a refined tenor-looking man whom I saw. He was young
and fattish, with a Jovian coiffure and pince-nez attached
to a black cord.</p>
<p>“Pardon me,” said this young man, “but are you a
member of the Pen and Ink Club?”</p>
<p>My momentary annoyance vanished, for it suddenly
occurred to me that, looked at in the proper light, it was
really extremely flattering, this staunch refusal on the part
of these people to entertain the belief that I could be one
of them. No doubt, I felt, they were taking up the position
of the proprietor of a certain night-club, who, when sued
for defamation of character by a young lady to whom he
had refused admittance on the ground that she was not a
fit person to associate with his members, explained to
the court that he had meant it as a compliment.</p>
<p>“No, thank Heaven!” I replied.</p>
<p>“Then what——”</p>
<p>“Press ticket,” I explained.</p>
<p>“Press ticket? What paper?”</p>
<p>“<i>Society .</i>”</p>
<p>There was nothing of the Julia Ukridge spirit in this
young man, no ingrained pride which kept him aloof and
outwardly indifferent. He beamed like the rising sun.
He grasped my arm and kneaded it. He gambolled about
me like a young lamb in the springtime.</p>
<p>“My dear fellow!” he exclaimed, exuberantly, and
clutched my arm more firmly, lest even now I might elude
him. “My dear fellow, I really must apologise. I would
not have questioned you, but there are some persons present
who were not invited. I met a man only a moment ago
who said that he had bought a ticket. Some absurd mistake.
There were no tickets for sale. I was about to
question him further, but he disappeared into the crowd
and I have not seen him since. This is a quite private
dance, open only to members of the club. Come with me,
my dear fellow, and I will give you a few particulars which
you may find of use for your article.”</p>
<p>He led me resolutely into a small room off the floor,
closed the door to prevent escape, and, on the principle on
which you rub a cat’s paws with butter to induce it to
settle down in a new home, began to fuss about with whisky
and cigarettes.</p>
<p>“Do, do sit down.”</p>
<p>I sat down.</p>
<p>“First, about this club. The Pen and Ink Club is the
only really exclusive organisation of its kind in London.
We pride ourselves on the fact. We are to the literary
world what Brooks’s and the Carlton are to the social.
Members are elected solely by invitation. Election, in
short, you understand, is in the nature of an accolade. We
have exactly one hundred members, and we include only
those writers who in our opinion possess vision.”</p>
<p>“And the big, broad, flexible outlook?”</p>
<p>“I beg your pardon?”</p>
<p>“Nothing.”</p>
<p>“The names of most of those here to-night must be very
familiar to you.”</p>
<p>“I know Miss Ukridge, the president,” I said.</p>
<p>A faint, almost imperceptible shadow passed over the
stout young man’s face. He removed his pince-nez and
polished them with a touch of disfavour. There was a
rather flat note in his voice.</p>
<p>“Ah, yes,” he said, “Julia Ukridge. A dear soul, but
between ourselves, strictly between ourselves, not a great
deal of help in an executive capacity.”</p>
<p>“No!”</p>
<p>“No. In confidence, I do all the work. I am the
club’s secretary. My name, by the way, is Charlton Prout.
You may know it?”</p>
<p>He eyed me wistfully, and I felt that something ought to
be done about him. He was much too sleek, and he had
no right to do his hair like that.</p>
<p>“Of course,” I said. “I have read all your
books.”</p>
<p>“Really?”</p>
<p>“‘A Shriek in the Night.’ ‘Who Killed Jasper Bossom?’—all
of them.”</p>
<p>He stiffened austerely.</p>
<p>“You must be confusing me with some other—ah—writer,”
he said. “My work is on somewhat different lines.
The reviewers usually describe the sort of thing I do as
Pastels in Prose. My best-liked book, I believe, is <i>Grey
Myrtles.</i> Dunstable’s brought it out last year. It was
exceedingly well received. And I do a good deal of critical
work for the better class of review.” He paused. “If
you think it would interest your readers,” he said, with
a deprecating wave of the hand, “I will send you a
photograph. Possibly your editor would like to use
it.”</p>
<p>“I bet he would.”</p>
<p>“A photograph somehow seems to—as it were—set off
an article of this kind.”</p>
<p>“That,” I replied, cordially, “is what it doesn’t do
nothing else but.”</p>
<p>“And you won’t forget <i>Grey Myrtles.</i> Well, if you have
finished your cigarette, we might be returning to the
ballroom. These people rather rely on me to keep things
going, you know.”</p>
<p>A burst of music greeted us as he opened the door, and
even in that first moment I had an odd feeling that it
sounded different. That tinny sound had gone from it.
And as we debouched from behind a potted palm and came
in sight of the floor, I realised why.</p>
<p>The floor was full. It was crammed, jammed, and overflowing.
Where couples had moved as single spies, they
were now in battalions. The place was alive with noise
and laughter. These people might, as my companion had
said, be relying on him to keep things going, but they
seemed to have been getting along uncommonly well in
his absence. I paused and surveyed the mob in astonishment.
I could not make the man’s figures balance.</p>
<p>“I thought you said the Pen and Ink Club had only a
hundred members.”</p>
<p>The secretary was fumbling for his glasses. He had an
almost Ukridge-like knack of dropping his pince-nez in
moments of emotion.</p>
<p>“It—it has,” he stammered.</p>
<p>“Well, reading from left to right, I make it nearer seven
hundred.”</p>
<p>“I cannot understand it.”</p>
<p>“Perhaps they have been having a new election and
letting in some writers without vision,” I suggested.</p>
<p>I was aware of Miss Ukridge bearing down upon us,
bristling.</p>
<p>“Mr. Prout!”</p>
<p>The talented young author of <i>Grey Myrtles </i> leaped convulsively.</p>
<p>“Yes, Miss Ukridge?”</p>
<p>“Who are all these people?”</p>
<p>“I—I don’t know,” said the talented young man.</p>
<p>“You don’t know! It’s your business to know. You
are the secretary of the club. I suggest that you find out
as quickly as possible who they are and what they imagine
they are doing here.”</p>
<p>The goaded secretary had something of the air of a man
leading a forlorn hope, and his ears had turned bright pink,
but he went at it bravely. A serene-looking man with a
light moustache and a made-up tie was passing, and he
sprang upon him like a stoutish leopard.</p>
<p>“Excuse me, sir.”</p>
<p>“Eh?”</p>
<p>“Will you kindly—would you mind—pardon me if I
ask——”</p>
<p>“What are you doing here?” demanded Miss Ukridge,
curtly, cutting in on his flounderings with a masterful
impatience. “How do you come to be at this dance?”</p>
<p>The man seemed surprised.</p>
<p>“Who, me?” he said. “I came with the rest of ’em.”</p>
<p>“What do you mean, the rest of them?”</p>
<p>“The members of the Warner’s Stores Social and Outing
Club.”</p>
<p>“But this is the dance of the Pen and Ink Club,” bleated
Mr. Prout.</p>
<p>“Some mistake,” said the other, confidently. “It’s a
bloomer of some kind. Here,” he added, beckoning to a
portly gentleman of middle age who was bustling by, “you’d
better have a talk with our hon. sec. He’ll know. Mr.
Biggs, this gentleman seems to think there’s been some
mistake about this dance.”</p>
<p>Mr. Biggs stopped, looked, and listened. Seen at close
range, he had a forceful, determined air. I liked his looks.</p>
<p>“May I introduce Mr. Charlton Prout?” I said.
“Author of <i>Grey Myrtles.</i> Mr. Prout,” I went on, as this
seemed to make little or no sensation, “is the secretary of
the Pen and Ink Club.”</p>
<p>“I’m the secretary of the Warner’s Stores Social and
Outing Club,” said Mr. Biggs.</p>
<p>The two secretaries eyed each other warily, like two dogs.</p>
<p>“But what are you doing here?” moaned Mr. Prout,
in a voice like the wind in the tree-tops. “This is a private
dance.”</p>
<p>“Nothing of the kind,” said Mr. Biggs, resolutely. “I
personally bought tickets for all my members.”</p>
<p>“But there were no tickets for sale. The dance was for
the exclusive——”</p>
<p>“It’s perfectly evident that you have come to the wrong
hall or chosen the wrong evening,” snapped Miss Ukridge,
abruptly superseding Mr. Prout in the supreme command.
I did not blame her for feeling a little impatient. The
secretary was handling the campaign very feebly.</p>
<p>The man behind the Warner’s Stores Social and Outing
Club cocked a polite but belligerent eye at this new enemy.
I liked his looks more than ever. This was a man who
would fight it out on these lines if it took all the summer.</p>
<p>“I have not the honour of this lady’s acquaintance,”
he said, smoothly, but with a gradually reddening eye.
The Biggses, that eye seemed to say, were loath to war upon
women, but if the women asked for it they could be men
of iron, ruthless. “Might I ask who this lady is?”</p>
<p>“This is our president.”</p>
<p>“Happy to meet you, ma’am.”</p>
<p>“Miss Ukridge,” added Mr. Prout, completing the
introduction.</p>
<p>The name appeared to strike a chord in Mr. Biggs. He
bent forward and a gleam of triumph came into his eyes.</p>
<p>“Ukridge, did you say?”</p>
<p>“Miss Julia Ukridge.”</p>
<p>“Then it’s all right,” said Mr. Biggs, briskly. “There’s
been no mistake. I bought our tickets from a gentleman
named Ukridge. I got seven hundred at five bob apiece,
reduction for taking a quantity and ten per cent. discount
for cash. If Mr. Ukridge acted contrary to instructions,
it’s too late to remedy the matter now. You should have
made it clear to him what you wanted him to do before he
went and did it.”</p>
<p>And with this extremely sound sentiment the honorary
secretary of the Warner’s Stores Social and Outing Club
turned on the heel of his shining dancing-pump and was
gone. And I, too, sauntered away. There seemed nothing
to keep me. As I went, I looked over my shoulder. The
author of <i>Grey Myrtles </i> appeared to be entering upon the
opening stages of what promised to be a painful <i>tête-à-tête.</i>
My heart bled for him. If ever a man was blameless Mr.
Prout was, but the president of the Pen and Ink Club
was not the woman to allow a trifle like that to stand in her
way.</p>
<p>“Oh, it just came to me, laddie,” said Stanley Featherstonehaugh
Ukridge modestly, interviewed later by our
representative. “You know me. One moment mind a
blank, then—<i>bing!</i>—some dashed colossal idea. It was
your showing me that ticket for the dance that set me
thinking. And I happened to meet a bloke in a pub who
worked in Warner’s Stores. Nice fellow, with a fair amount
of pimples. Told me their Social and Outing Club was
working up for its semi-annual beano. One thing led to
another, I got him to introduce me to the hon. sec., and we
came to terms. I liked the man, laddie. Great treat to
meet a bloke with a good, level business head. We settled
the details in no time. Well, I don’t mind telling you,
Corky my boy, that at last for the first time in many years
I begin to see my way clear. I’ve got a bit of capital now.
After sending poor little Dora her hundred, I shall have at
least fifty quid left over. Fifty quid! My dear old son,
you may take it from me that there’s no limit—absolutely
no limit—to what I can accomplish with fifty o’goblins in
my kick. From now on I see my way clear. My feet are
on solid ground. The world, laddie, is my oyster. Nothing
can stop me from making a colossal fortune. I’m not
exaggerating, old horse—a colossal fortune. Why, by a
year from now I calculate, at a conservative estimate——”</p>
<p>Our representative then withdrew.</p>
<h2 id="CH7">  CHAPTER VII </h2>
<div class="chtitle">  NO WEDDING BELLS FOR HIM </div>
<p>To Ukridge, as might be expected from one of
his sunny optimism, the whole affair has long
since come to present itself in the light of yet
another proof of the way in which all things
in this world of ours work together for good. In it, from
start to finish, he sees the finger of Providence; and, when
marshalling evidence to support his theory that a means of
escape from the most formidable perils will always be vouchsafed
to the righteous and deserving, this is the episode
which he advances as Exhibit A.</p>
<p>The thing may be said to have had its beginning in the
Haymarket one afternoon towards the middle of the
summer. We had been lunching at my expense at the
Pall Mall Restaurant, and as we came out a large and shiny
car drew up beside the kerb, and the chauffeur, alighting,
opened the bonnet and began to fiddle about in its interior
with a pair of pliers. Had I been alone, a casual glance in
passing would have contented me, but for Ukridge the
spectacle of somebody else working always had an irresistible
fascination, and, gripping my arm, he steered me up to
assist him in giving the toiler moral support. About two
minutes after he had started to breathe earnestly on the
man’s neck, the latter, seeming to become aware that what
was tickling his back hair was not some wandering June
zephyr, looked up with a certain petulance.</p>
<p>“’Ere!” he said, protestingly. Then his annoyance
gave place to something which—for a chauffeur—approached
cordiality. “’Ullo!” he observed.</p>
<p>“Why, hallo, Frederick,” said Ukridge. “Didn’t recognise
you. Is this the new car?”</p>
<p>“Ah,” nodded the chauffeur.</p>
<p>“Pal of mine,” explained Ukridge to me in a brief aside.
“Met him in a pub.” London was congested with pals
whom Ukridge had met in pubs. “What’s the trouble?”</p>
<p>“Missing,” said Frederick the chauffeur. “Soon ’ave
her right.”</p>
<p>His confidence in his skill was not misplaced. After a
short interval he straightened himself, closed the bonnet,
and wiped his hands.</p>
<p>“Nice day,” he said.</p>
<p>“Terrific,” agreed Ukridge. “Where are you off to?”</p>
<p>“Got to go to Addington. Pick up the guv’nor, playin’
golf there.” He seemed to hesitate for a moment, then the
mellowing influence of the summer sunshine asserted itself.
“Like a ride as far as East Croydon? Get a train back
from there.”</p>
<p>It was a handsome offer, and one which neither Ukridge
nor myself felt disposed to decline. We climbed in,
Frederick trod on the self-starter, and off we bowled, two
gentlemen of fashion taking their afternoon airing. Speaking
for myself, I felt tranquil and debonair, and I have no
reason to suppose that Ukridge was otherwise. The
deplorable incident which now occurred was thus rendered
doubly distressing. We had stopped at the foot of the
street to allow the north-bound traffic to pass, when our
pleasant after-luncheon torpidity was shattered by a sudden
and violent shout.</p>
<p>“Hi!”</p>
<p>That the shouter was addressing us there was no room
for doubt. He was standing on the pavement not four
feet away, glaring unmistakably into our costly tonneau—a
stout, bearded man of middle age, unsuitably clad, considering
the weather and the sartorial prejudices of Society,
in a frock-coat and a bowler hat. “Hi! You!” he
bellowed, to the scandal of all good passers-by.</p>
<p>Frederick the chauffeur, after one swift glance of god-like
disdain out of the corner of his left eye, had ceased
to interest himself in this undignified exhibition on the
part of one of the lower orders, but I was surprised to
observe that Ukridge was betraying all the discomposure
of some wild thing taken in a trap. His face had turned
crimson and assumed a bulbous expression, and he was
staring straight ahead of him with a piteous effort to ignore
what manifestly would not be ignored.</p>
<p>“I’d like a word with you,” boomed the bearded
one.</p>
<p>And then matters proceeded with a good deal of rapidity.
The traffic had begun to move on now, and as we moved
with it, travelling with increasing speed, the man appeared
to realise that if ’twere done ’twere well ’twere done quickly.
He executed a cumbersome leap and landed on our running-board;
and Ukridge, coming suddenly to life, put out a
large flat hand and pushed. The intruder dropped off, and
the last I saw of him he was standing in the middle of the
road, shaking his fist, in imminent danger of being run over
by a number three omnibus.</p>
<p>“Gosh!” sighed Ukridge, with some feverishness.</p>
<p>“What was it all about?” I enquired.</p>
<p>“Bloke I owe a bit of money to,” explained Ukridge,
tersely.</p>
<p>“Ah!” I said, feeling that all had been made clear. I
had never before actually seen one of Ukridge’s creditors
in action, but he had frequently given me to understand that
they lurked all over London like leopards in the jungle,
waiting to spring on him. There were certain streets down
which he would never walk for fear of what might
befall.</p>
<p>“Been trailing me like a bloodhound for two years,” said
Ukridge. “Keeps bobbing up when I don’t expect him
and turning my hair white to the roots.”</p>
<p>I was willing to hear more, and even hinted as much, but
he relapsed into a moody silence. We were moving at a
brisk clip into Clapham Common when the second of the
incidents occurred which were to make this drive linger in
the memory. Just as we came in sight of the Common, a
fool of a girl loomed up right before our front wheels. She
had been crossing the road, and now, after the manner of
her species, she lost her head. She was a large, silly-looking
girl, and she darted to and fro like a lunatic hen; and as
Ukridge and I rose simultaneously from our seats, clutching
each other in agony, she tripped over her feet and fell.
But Frederick, master of his craft, had the situation well
in hand. He made an inspired swerve, and when we
stopped a moment later, the girl was picking herself up,
dusty, but still in one piece.</p>
<p>These happenings affect different men in different ways.
In Frederick’s cold grey eye as he looked over his shoulder
and backed the car there was only the weary scorn of a
superman for the never-ending follies of a woollen-headed
proletariat. I, on the other hand, had reacted in a gust
of nervous profanity. And Ukridge, I perceived as I grew
calmer, the affair had touched on his chivalrous side. All
the time we were backing he was mumbling to himself,
and he was out of the car, bleating apologies, almost before
we had stopped.</p>
<p>“Awfully sorry. Might have killed you. Can’t forgive
myself.”</p>
<p>The girl treated the affair in still another way. She
giggled. And somehow that brainless laugh afflicted me
more than anything that had gone before. It was not her
fault, I suppose. This untimely mirth was merely due to
disordered nerves. But I had taken a prejudice against
her at first sight.</p>
<p>“I do hope,” babbled Ukridge, “you aren’t hurt? Do
tell me you aren’t hurt.”</p>
<p>The girl giggled again. And she was at least twelve
pounds too heavy to be a giggler. I wanted to pass on
and forget her.</p>
<p>“No, reely, thanks.”</p>
<p>“But shaken, what?”</p>
<p>“I did come down a fair old bang,” chuckled this
repellent female.</p>
<p>“I thought so. I was afraid so. Shaken. Ganglions
vibrating. You must let me drive you home.”</p>
<p>“Oh, it doesn’t matter.”</p>
<p>“I insist. Positively I insist!”</p>
<p>“’Ere!” said Frederick the chauffeur, in a low, compelling
voice.</p>
<p>“Eh?”</p>
<p>“Got to get on to Addington.”</p>
<p>“Yes, yes, yes,” said Ukridge, with testy impatience,
quite the seigneur resenting interference from an underling.
“But there’s plenty of time to drive this lady home. Can’t
you see she’s shaken? Where can I take you?”</p>
<p>“It’s only just round the corner in the next street.
Balbriggan the name of the house is.”</p>
<p>“Balbriggan, Frederick, in the next street,” said Ukridge,
in a tone that brooked no argument.</p>
<p>I suppose the spectacle of the daughter of the house
rolling up to the front door in a Daimler is unusual in
Peabody Road, Clapham Common. At any rate, we had
hardly drawn up when Balbriggan began to exude its
occupants in platoons. Father, mother, three small sisters,
and a brace of brothers were on the steps in the first ten
seconds. They surged down the garden path in a solid
mass.</p>
<p>Ukridge was at his most spacious. Quickly establishing
himself on the footing of a friend of the family, he took
charge of the whole affair. Introductions sped to and fro,
and in a few moving words he explained the situation,
while I remained mute and insignificant in my corner and
Frederick the chauffeur stared at his oil-gauge with a
fathomless eye.</p>
<p>“Couldn’t have forgiven myself, Mr. Price, if anything
had happened to Miss Price. Fortunately my chauffeur
is an excellent driver and swerved just in time. You
showed great presence of mind, Frederick,” said Ukridge,
handsomely, “great presence of mind.”</p>
<p>Frederick continued to gaze aloofly at his oil-gauge.</p>
<p>“What a lovely car, Mr. Ukridge!” said the mother of
the family.</p>
<p>“Yes?” said Ukridge, airily. “Yes, quite a good old
machine.”</p>
<p>“Can you drive yourself?” asked the smaller of the two
small brothers, reverently.</p>
<p>“Oh, yes. Yes. But I generally use Frederick for town
work.”</p>
<p>“Would you and your friend care to come in for a cup of
tea?” said Mrs. Price.</p>
<p>I could see Ukridge hesitate. He had only recently
finished an excellent lunch, but there was that about the
offer of a free meal which never failed to touch a chord in
him. At this point, however, Frederick spoke.</p>
<p>“’Ere!” said Frederick.</p>
<p>“Eh?”</p>
<p>“Got to get on to Addington,” said Frederick, firmly.</p>
<p>Ukridge started as one waked from a dream. I really
believe he had succeeded in persuading himself that the car
belonged to him.</p>
<p>“Of course, yes. I was forgetting. I have to be at
Addington almost immediately. Promised to pick up some
golfing friends. Some other time, eh?”</p>
<p>“Any time you’re in the neighbourhood, Mr. Ukridge,”
said Mr. Price, beaming upon the popular pet.</p>
<p>“Thanks, thanks.”</p>
<p>“Tell me, Mr. Ukridge,” said Mrs. Price. “I’ve been
wondering ever since you told me your name. It’s such
an unusual one. Are you any relation to the Miss Ukridge
who writes books?”</p>
<p>“My aunt,” beamed Ukridge.</p>
<p>“No, really? I do love her stories so. Tell me——”</p>
<p>Frederick, whom I could not sufficiently admire, here
broke off what promised to be a lengthy literary discussion
by treading on the self-starter, and we drove off in a flurry
of good wishes and invitations. I rather fancy I heard
Ukridge, as he leaned over the back of the car, promising
to bring his aunt round to Sunday supper some time. He
resumed his seat as we turned the corner and at once began
to moralise.</p>
<p>“Always sow the good seed, laddie. Absolutely nothing
to beat the good seed. Never lose the chance of establishing
yourself. It is the secret of a successful life. Just a
few genial words, you see, and here I am with a place I can
always pop into for a bite when funds are low.”</p>
<p>I was shocked at his sordid outlook, and said so. He
rebuked me out of his larger wisdom.</p>
<p>“It’s all very well to take that attitude, Corky my
boy, but do you realise that a family like that has cold beef,
baked potatoes, pickles, salad, blanc-mange, and some sort
of cheese every Sunday night after Divine service? There
are moments in a man’s life, laddie, when a spot of cold beef
with blanc-mange to follow means more than words can
tell.”</p>
<p>It was about a week later that I happened to go to the
British Museum to gather material for one of those brightly
informative articles of mine which appeared from time to
time in the weekly papers. I was wandering through the
place, accumulating data, when I came upon Ukridge with
a small boy attached to each hand. He seemed a trifle
weary, and he welcomed me with something of the gratification
of the shipwrecked mariner who sights a sail.</p>
<p>“Run along and improve your bally minds, you kids,”
he said to the children. “You’ll find me here when you’ve
finished.”</p>
<p>“All right, Uncle Stanley,” chorused the children.</p>
<p>“Uncle Stanley?” I said, accusingly.</p>
<p>He winced a little. I had to give him credit for that.</p>
<p>“Those are the Price kids. From Clapham.”</p>
<p>“I remember them.”</p>
<p>“I’m taking them out for the day. Must repay hospitality,
Corky my boy.”</p>
<p>“Then you have really been inflicting yourself on those
unfortunate people?”</p>
<p>“I have looked in from time to time,” said Ukridge, with
dignity.</p>
<p>“It’s just over a week since you met them. How often
have you looked in?”</p>
<p>“Couple of times, perhaps. Maybe three.”</p>
<p>“To meals?”</p>
<p>“There was a bit of browsing going on,” admitted
Ukridge.</p>
<p>“And now you’re Uncle Stanley!”</p>
<p>“Fine, warm-hearted people,” said Ukridge, and it
seemed to me that he spoke with a touch of defiance.
“Made me one of the family right from the beginning. Of
course, it cuts both ways. This afternoon, for instance, I
got landed with those kids. But, all in all, taking the rough
with the smooth, it has worked out distinctly on the right
side of the ledger. I own I’m not over keen on the hymns
after Sunday supper, but the supper, laddie, is undeniable.
As good a bit of cold beef,” said Ukridge, dreamily, “as
I ever chewed.”</p>
<p>“Greedy brute,” I said, censoriously.</p>
<p>“Must keep body and soul together, old man. Of course,
there are one or two things about the business that are a
bit embarrassing. For instance, somehow or other they
seem to have got the idea that that car we turned up in
that day belongs to me, and the kids are always pestering
me to take them for a ride. Fortunately I’ve managed to
square Frederick, and he thinks he can arrange for a spin
or two during the next few days. And then Mrs. Price
keeps asking me to bring my aunt round for a cup of tea
and a chat, and I haven’t the heart to tell her that my aunt
absolutely and finally disowned me the day after that
business of the dance.”</p>
<p>“You didn’t tell me that.”</p>
<p>“Didn’t I? Oh, yes. I got a letter from her saying
that as far as she was concerned I had ceased to exist. I
thought it showed a nasty, narrow spirit, but I can’t say
I was altogether surprised. Still, it makes it awkward
when Mrs. Price wants to get matey with her. I’ve had to
tell her that my aunt is a chronic invalid and never goes
out, being practically bedridden. I find all this a bit
wearing, laddie.”</p>
<p>“I suppose so.”</p>
<p>“You see,” said Ukridge, “I dislike subterfuge.”</p>
<p>There seemed no possibility of his beating this, so I left
the man and resumed my researches.</p>
<p>After this I was out of town for a few weeks, taking my
annual vacation. When I got back to Ebury Street, Bowles,
my landlord, after complimenting me in a stately way on
my sunburned appearance, informed me that George
Tupper had called several times while I was away.</p>
<p>“Appeared remarkably anxious to see you, sir.”</p>
<p>I was surprised at this. George Tupper was always
glad—or seemed to be glad—to see an old school friend
when I called upon him, but he rarely sought me out in
my home.</p>
<p>“Did he say what he wanted?”</p>
<p>“No, sir. He left no message. He merely enquired as
to the probable date of your return and expressed a desire
that you would visit him as soon as convenient.”</p>
<p>“I’d better go and see him now.”</p>
<p>“It might be advisable, sir.”</p>
<p>I found George Tupper at the Foreign Office, surrounded
by important-looking papers.</p>
<p>“Here you are at last!” cried George, resentfully, it
seemed to me. “I thought you were never coming back.”</p>
<p>“I had a splendid time, thanks very much for asking,”
I replied. “Got the roses back to my cheeks.”</p>
<p>George, who seemed far from his usual tranquil self,
briefly cursed my cheeks and their roses.</p>
<p>“Look here,” he said, urgently, “something’s got to
be done. Have you seen Ukridge yet?”</p>
<p>“Not yet. I thought I would look him up this evening.”</p>
<p>“You’d better. Do you know what has happened?
That poor ass has gone and got himself engaged to be
married to a girl at Clapham!”</p>
<p>“What?”</p>
<p>“Engaged! Girl at Clapham! Clapham Common,”
added George Tupper, as if in his opinion that made the
matter even worse.</p>
<p>“You’re joking!”</p>
<p>“I’m not joking,” said George peevishly. “Do I look
as if I were joking? I met him in Battersea Park with her,
and he introduced me. She reminded me,” said George
Tupper, shivering slightly, for that fearful evening had
seared his soul deeply, “of that ghastly female in pink he
brought with him the night I gave you two dinner at the
Regent Grill—the one who talked at the top of her voice all
the time about her aunt’s stomach-trouble.”</p>
<p>Here I think he did Miss Price an injustice. She had
struck me during our brief acquaintance as something of a
blister, but I had never quite classed her with Battling
Billson’s Flossie.</p>
<p>“Well, what do you want me to do?” I asked, not,
I think, unreasonably.</p>
<p>“You’ve got to think of some way of getting him out of
it. I can’t do anything. I’m busy all day.”</p>
<p>“So am I busy.”</p>
<p>“Busy my left foot!” said George Tupper, who in
moments of strong emotion was apt to relapse into the
phraseology of school days and express himself in a very
un-Foreign Official manner. “About once a week you
work up energy enough to write a rotten article for some
rag of a paper on ‘Should Curates Kiss?’ or some silly
subject, and the rest of the time you loaf about with
Ukridge. It’s obviously your job to disentangle the poor
idiot.”</p>
<p>“But how do you know he wants to be disentangled?
It seems to me you’re jumping pretty readily to conclusions.
It’s all very well for you bloodless officials to sneer at
the holy passion, but it’s love, as I sometimes say, that
makes the world go round. Ukridge probably feels that
until now he never realised what true happiness could
mean.”</p>
<p>“Does he?” snorted George Tupper. “Well, he didn’t
look it when I met him. He looked like—well, do you
remember when he went in for the heavyweights at school
and that chap in Seymour’s house hit him in the wind in
the first round? That’s how he looked when he was
introducing the girl to me.”</p>
<p>I am bound to say the comparison impressed me. It is
odd how these little incidents of one’s boyhood linger in
the memory. Across the years I could see Ukridge now,
half doubled up, one gloved hand caressing his diaphragm,
a stunned and horrified bewilderment in his eyes. If his
bearing as an engaged man had reminded George Tupper of
that occasion, it certainly did seem as if the time had come
for his friends to rally round him.</p>
<p>“You seem to have taken on the job of acting as a sort
of unofficial keeper to the man,” said George. “You’ll
have to help him now.”</p>
<p>“Well, I’ll go and see him.”</p>
<p>“The whole thing is too absurd,” said George Tupper.
“How can Ukridge get married to anyone! He hasn’t a
bob in the world.”</p>
<p>“I’ll point that out to him. He’s probably overlooked
it.”</p>
<p>It was my custom when I visited Ukridge at his lodgings
to stand underneath his window and bellow his name—upon
which, if at home and receiving, he would lean out and drop
me down his latchkey, thus avoiding troubling his landlady
to come up from the basement to open the door. A very
judicious proceeding, for his relations with that autocrat
were usually in a somewhat strained condition. I bellowed
now, and his head popped out.</p>
<p>“Hallo, laddie!”</p>
<p>It seemed to me, even at this long range, that there was
something peculiar about his face, but it was not till I had
climbed the stairs to his room that I was able to be certain.
I then perceived that he had somehow managed to acquire
a black eye, which, though past its first bloom, was still
of an extraordinary richness.</p>
<p>“Great Scott!” I cried, staring at this decoration.
“How and when?”</p>
<p>Ukridge drew at his pipe moodily.</p>
<p>“It’s a long story,” he said. “Do you remember some
people named Price at Clapham——”</p>
<p>“You aren’t going to tell me your <i>fiancée </i> has biffed you
in the eye already?”</p>
<p>“Have you heard?” said Ukridge, surprised. “Who
told you I was engaged?”</p>
<p>“George Tupper. I’ve just been seeing him.”</p>
<p>“Oh, well, that saves a lot of explanation. Laddie,”
said Ukridge, solemnly, “let this be a warning to you.
Never——”</p>
<p>I wanted facts, not moralisings.</p>
<p>“How did you get the eye?” I interrupted.</p>
<p>Ukridge blew out a cloud of smoke and his other eye
glowed sombrely.</p>
<p>“That was Ernie Finch,” he said, in a cold voice.</p>
<p>“Who is Ernie Finch? I’ve never heard of him.”</p>
<p>“He’s a sort of friend of the family, and as far as I can
make out was going rather strong as regards Mabel till I
came along. When we got engaged he was away, and no
one apparently thought it worth while to tell him about it,
and he came along one night and found me kissing her
good-bye in the front garden. Observe how these things
work out, Corky. The sight of him coming along suddenly
gave Mabel a start, and she screamed; the fact that she
screamed gave this man Finch a totally wrong angle on the
situation; and this caused him, blast him, to rush up, yank
off my glasses with one hand, and hit me with the other
right in the eye. And before I could get at him the family
were roused by Mabel’s screeches and came out and separated
us and explained that I was engaged to Mabel. Of course,
when he heard that, the man apologised. And I wish you
could have seen the beastly smirk he gave when he was
doing it. Then there was a bit of a row and old Price
forbade him the house. A fat lot of good that was? I’ve
had to stay indoors ever since waiting for the colour-scheme
to dim a bit.”</p>
<p>“Of course,” I urged, “one can’t help being sorry for the
chap in a way.”</p>
<p>“<i>I </i> can,” said Ukridge, emphatically. “I’ve reached
the conclusion that there is not room in this world for Ernie
Finch and myself, and I’m living in the hope of meeting
him one of these nights down in a dark alley.”</p>
<p>“You sneaked his girl,” I pointed out.</p>
<p>“I don’t want his beastly girl,” said Ukridge, with
ungallant heat.</p>
<p>“Then you really do want to get out of this thing?”</p>
<p>“Of course I want to get out of it.”</p>
<p>“But, if you feel like that, how on earth did you ever
let it happen?”</p>
<p>“I simply couldn’t tell you, old horse,” said Ukridge,
frankly. “It’s all a horrid blur. The whole affair was
the most ghastly shock to me. It came absolutely out of
a blue sky. I had never so much as suspected the possibility
of such a thing. All I know is that we found ourselves
alone in the drawing-room after Sunday supper, and all of
a sudden the room became full of Prices of every description
babbling blessings. And there I was!”</p>
<p>“But you must have given them something to go
on.”</p>
<p>“I was holding her hand. I admit that.”</p>
<p>“Ah!”</p>
<p>“Well, my gosh, I don’t see why there should have been
such a fuss about that. What does a bit of hand-holding
amount to? The whole thing, Corky, my boy, boils down
to the question, Is any man safe? It’s got so nowadays,”
said Ukridge, with a strong sense of injury, “that you’ve
only to throw a girl a kindly word, and the next thing you
know you’re in the Lord Warden Hotel at Dover, picking
the rice out of your hair.”</p>
<p>“Well, you must own that you were asking for it. You
rolled up in a new Daimler and put on enough dog for half
a dozen millionaires. And you took the family for rides,
didn’t you?”</p>
<p>“Perhaps a couple of times.”</p>
<p>“And talked about your aunt, I expect, and how rich
she was?”</p>
<p>“I may have touched on my aunt occasionally.”</p>
<p>“Well, naturally these people thought you were sent
from heaven. The wealthy son-in-law.” Ukridge projected
himself from the depths sufficiently to muster up the
beginnings of a faint smile of gratification at the description.
Then his troubles swept him back again. “All you’ve got
to do, if you want to get out of it, is to confess to them
that you haven’t a bob.”</p>
<p>“But, laddie, that’s the difficulty. It’s a most unfortunate
thing, but, as it happens, I am on the eve of making
an immense fortune, and I’m afraid I hinted as much to
them from time to time.”</p>
<p>“What do you mean?”</p>
<p>“Since I saw you last I’ve put all my money in a bookmaker’s
business.”</p>
<p>“How do you mean—all your money? Where did you
get any money?”</p>
<p>“You haven’t forgotten the fifty quid I made selling
tickets for my aunt’s dance? And then I collected a bit
more here and there out of some judicious bets. So there
it is. The firm is in a small way at present, but with the
world full of mugs shoving and jostling one another to back
losers, the thing is a potential goldmine, and I’m a sleeping
partner. It’s no good my trying to make these people
believe I’m hard up. They would simply laugh in my face
and rush off and start breach-of-promise actions. Upon my
Sam, it’s a little hard! Just when I have my foot firmly
planted on the ladder of success, this has to happen.” He
brooded in silence for awhile. “There’s just one scheme
that occurred to me,” he said at length. “Would you have
any objection to writing an anonymous letter?”</p>
<p>“What’s the idea?”</p>
<p>“I was just thinking that, if you were to write them an
anonymous letter, accusing me of all sorts of things——Might
say I was married already.”</p>
<p>“Not a bit of good.”</p>
<p>“Perhaps you’re right,” said Ukridge, gloomily, and
after a few minutes more of thoughtful silence I left him.
I was standing on the front steps when I heard him clattering
down the stairs.</p>
<p>“Corky, old man!”</p>
<p>“Hallo?”</p>
<p>“I think I’ve got it,” said Ukridge, joining me on the
steps. “Came to me in a flash a second ago. How would
it be if someone were to go down to Clapham and pretend
to be a detective making enquiries about me? Dashed
sinister and mysterious, you know. A good deal of meaning
nods and shakes of the head. Give the impression that I
was wanted for something or other. You get the idea?
You would ask a lot of questions and take notes in a
book——”</p>
<p>“How do you mean—<i>I </i> would?”</p>
<p>Ukridge looked at me in pained surprise.</p>
<p>“Surely, old horse, you wouldn’t object to doing a
trifling service like this for an old friend?”</p>
<p>“I would, strongly. And in any case, what would be
the use of my going? They’ve seen me.”</p>
<p>“Yes, but they wouldn’t recognise you. Yours,” said
Ukridge, ingratiatingly, “is an ordinary, meaningless sort
of face. Or one of those theatrical costumier people would
fit you out with a disguise——”</p>
<p>“No!” I said, firmly. “I’m willing to do anything in
reason to help you out of this mess, but I refuse to wear
false whiskers for you or anyone.”</p>
<p>“All right then,” said Ukridge, despondently; “in
that case, there’s nothing to be——”</p>
<p>At this moment he disappeared. It was so swiftly done
that he seemed to have been snatched up to heaven. Only
the searching odour of his powerful tobacco lingered to
remind me that he had once been at my side, and only the
slam of the front door told me where he had gone. I
looked about, puzzled to account for this abrupt departure,
and as I did so heard galloping footsteps and perceived a
stout, bearded gentleman of middle age, clad in a frock-coat
and a bowler hat. He was one of those men who,
once seen, are not readily forgotten; and I recognised him
at once. It was the creditor, the bloke Ukridge owed a
bit of money to, the man who had tried to board our car
in the Haymarket. Halting on the pavement below me,
he removed the hat and dabbed at his forehead with a
large coloured silk handkerchief.</p>
<p>“Was that Mr. Smallweed you were talking to?” he
demanded, gustily. He was obviously touched in the wind.</p>
<p>“No,” I replied, civilly. “No. Not Mr. Smallweed.”</p>
<p>“You’re lying to me, young man!” cried the creditor,
his voice rising in a too-familiar shout. And at the words,
as if they had been some magic spell, the street seemed
suddenly to wake from slumber. It seethed with human
life. Maids popped out of windows, areas disgorged landladies,
the very stones seemed to belch forth excited
spectators. I found myself the centre of attraction—and,
for some reason which was beyond me, cast for the <i>rôle</i> of
the villain of the drama. What I had actually done to the
poor old man, nobody appeared to know; but the school
of thought which held that I had picked his pocket and
brutally assaulted him had the largest number of adherents,
and there was a good deal of informal talk of lynching
me. Fortunately a young man in a blue flannel suit, who
had been one of the earliest arrivals on the scene, constituted
himself a peacemaker.</p>
<p>“Come along, o’ man,” he said, soothingly, his arm
weaving itself into that of the fermenting creditor. “You
don’t want to make yourself conspicuous, do you?”</p>
<p>“In there!” roared the creditor, pointing at the door.</p>
<p>The crowd seemed to recognise that there had been an
error in its diagnosis. The prevalent opinion now was that
I had kidnapped the man’s daughter and was holding her
prisoner behind that sinister door. The movement in
favour of lynching me became almost universal.</p>
<p>“Now, now!” said the young man, whom I was beginning
to like more every minute.</p>
<p>“I’ll kick the door in!”</p>
<p>“Now, now! You don’t want to go doing anything
silly or foolish,” pleaded the peacemaker. “There’ll be a
policeman along before you know where you are, and you’ll
look foolish if he finds you kicking up a silly row.”</p>
<p>I must say that, if I had been in the bearded one’s place
and had had right so indisputably on my side, this argument
would not have influenced me greatly, but I suppose
respectable citizens with a reputation to lose have different
views on the importance of colliding with the police, however
right they may be. The creditor’s violence began to ebb.
He hesitated. He was plainly trying to approach the
matter in the light of pure reason.</p>
<p>“You know where the fellow lives,” argued the young
man. “See what I mean? Meantersay, you can come
and find him whenever you like.”</p>
<p>This, too, sounded thin to me. But it appeared to convince
the injured man. He allowed himself to be led away,
and presently, the star having left the stage, the drama
ceased to attract. The audience melted away. Windows
closed, areas emptied themselves, and presently the street
was given over once more to the cat lunching in the gutter
and the coster hymning his Brussels sprouts.</p>
<p>A hoarse voice spoke through the letter-box.</p>
<p>“Has he gone, laddie?”</p>
<p>I put my mouth to the slit, and we talked together like
Pyramus and Thisbe.</p>
<p>“Yes.”</p>
<p>“You’re sure?”</p>
<p>“Certain.”</p>
<p>“He isn’t lurking round the corner somewhere, waiting
to pop out?”</p>
<p>“No. He’s gone.”</p>
<p>The door opened and an embittered Ukridge emerged.</p>
<p>“It’s a little hard!” he said, querulously. “You would
scarcely credit it, Corky, but all that fuss was about a measly
one pound two and threepence for a rotten little clockwork
man that broke the first time I wound it up. Absolutely
the first time, old man! It’s not as if it had been a tandem
bicycle, an enlarging camera, a Kodak, and a magic lantern.”</p>
<p>I could not follow him.</p>
<p>“Why should a clockwork man be a tandem bicycle and
the rest of it?”</p>
<p>“It’s like this,” said Ukridge. “There was a bicycle and
photograph shop down near where I lived a couple of years
ago, and I happened to see a tandem bicycle there which I
rather liked the look of. So I ordered it provisionally from
this cove. Absolutely provisionally, you understand. Also
an enlarging camera, a Kodak, and a magic lantern. The
goods were to be delivered when I had made up my mind
about them. Well, after about a week the fellow asks if
there are any further particulars I want to learn before
definitely buying the muck. I say I am considering the
matter, and in the meantime will he be good enough to let
me have that little clockwork man in his window which
walks when wound up?”</p>
<p>“Well?”</p>
<p>“Well, damme,” said Ukridge, aggrieved, “it didn’t
walk. It broke the first time I tried to wind it. Then a
few weeks went by and this bloke started to make himself
dashed unpleasant. Wanted me to pay him money! I
reasoned with the blighter. I said: ‘Now look here, my
man, need we say any more about this? Really, I think
you’ve come out of the thing extremely well. Which,’ I
said, ‘would you rather be owed for? A clockwork man,
or a tandem bicycle, an enlarging camera, a Kodak, and a
magic lantern?’ You’d think that would have been
simple enough for the meanest intellect, but no, he continued
to make a fuss, until finally I had to move out of the
neighbourhood. Fortunately, I had given him a false
name——”</p>
<p>“Why?”</p>
<p>“Just an ordinary business precaution,” explained
Ukridge.</p>
<p>“I see.”</p>
<p>“I looked on the matter as closed. But ever since then
he has been bounding out at me when I least expect him.
Once, by gad, he nearly nailed me in the middle of the
Strand, and I had to leg it like a hare up Burleigh Street
and through Covent Garden. I’d have been collared to a
certainty, only he tripped over a basket of potatoes. It’s
persecution, damme, that’s what it is—persecution!”</p>
<p>“Why don’t you pay the man?” I suggested.</p>
<p>“Corky, old horse,” said Ukridge, with evident disapproval
of these reckless fiscal methods, “talk sense.
How can I pay the man? Apart from the fact that at
this stage of my career it would be madness to start flinging
money right and left, there’s the principle of the thing!”</p>
<p>The immediate result of this disturbing episode was that
Ukridge, packing his belongings in a small suit-case and
reluctantly disgorging a week’s rent in lieu of notice, softly
and silently vanished away from his own lodgings and came
to dwell in mine, to the acute gratification of Bowles, who
greeted his arrival with a solemn joy and brooded over him
at dinner the first night like a father over a long-lost son.
I had often given him sanctuary before in his hour of need,
and he settled down with the easy smoothness of an old
campaigner. He was good enough to describe my little
place as a home from home, and said that he had half a
mind to stay on and end his declining years there.</p>
<p>I cannot say that this suggestion gave me the rapturous
pleasure it seemed to give Bowles, who nearly dropped the
potato dish in his emotion; but still I must say that on
the whole the man was not an exacting guest. His practice
of never rising before lunch-time ensured me those mornings
of undisturbed solitude which are so necessary to the
young writer if he is to give <i>Interesting Bits </i> of his best;
and if I had work to do in the evenings he was always ready
to toddle downstairs and smoke a pipe with Bowles, whom
he seemed to find as congenial a companion as Bowles
found him. His only defect, indeed, was the habit he had
developed of looking in on me in my bedroom at all hours
of the night to discuss some new scheme designed to relieve
him of his honourable obligations to Miss Mabel Price, of
Balbriggan, Peabody Road, Clapham Common. My outspoken
remarks on this behaviour checked him for forty-eight
hours, but at three o’clock on the Sunday morning
that ended the first week of his visit light flashing out above
my head told me that he was in again.</p>
<p>“I think, laddie,” I heard a satisfied voice remark, as
a heavy weight descended on my toes, “I think, laddie, that
at last I have hit the bull’s-eye and rung the bell. Hats
off to Bowles, without whom I would never have got the
idea. It was only when he told me the plot of that story
he is reading that I began to see daylight. Listen, old
man,” said Ukridge, settling himself more comfortably on
my feet, “and tell me if you don’t think I am on to a
good thing. About a couple of days before Lord Claude
Tremaine was to marry Angela Bracebridge, the most
beautiful girl in London——”</p>
<p>“What the devil are you talking about? And do you
know what the time is?”</p>
<p>“Never mind the time, Corky my boy. To-morrow is
the day of rest and you can sleep on till an advanced hour.
I was telling you the plot of this Primrose Novelette thing
that Bowles is reading.”</p>
<p>“You haven’t woken me up at three in the morning to
tell me the plot of a rotten novelette!”</p>
<p>“You haven’t been listening, old man,” said Ukridge,
with gentle reproach. “I was saying that it was this plot
that gave me my big idea. To cut it fairly short, as you
seem in a strange mood, this Lord Claude bloke, having had
a rummy pain in his left side, went to see a doctor a couple
of days before the wedding, and the doc. gave him the start
of his young life by telling him that he had only six months
to live. There’s a lot more of it, of course, and in the end
it turns out that the fool of a doctor was all wrong; but
what I’m driving at is that this development absolutely
put the bee on the wedding. Everybody sympathised
with Claude and said it was out of the question that he could
dream of getting married. So it suddenly occurred to me,
laddie, that here was the scheme of a lifetime. I’m going to
supper at Balbriggan to-morrow, and what I want you to
do is simply to——”</p>
<p>“You can stop right there,” I said, with emotion. “I
know what you want me to do. You want me to come
along with you, disguised in a top-hat and a stethoscope,
and explain to these people that I am a Harley Street
specialist, and have been sounding you and have discovered
that you are in the last stages of heart-disease.”</p>
<p>“Nothing of the kind, old man, nothing of the kind. I
wouldn’t dream of asking you to do anything like that.”</p>
<p>“Yes, you would, if you had happened to think of it.”</p>
<p>“Well, as a matter of fact, since you mention it,” said
Ukridge, thoughtfully, “it wouldn’t be a bad scheme. But
if you don’t feel like taking it on——”</p>
<p>“I don’t.”</p>
<p>“Well, then, all I want you to do is to come to Balbriggan
at about nine. Supper will be over by then. No sense,”
said Ukridge, thoughtfully, “in missing supper. Come to
Balbriggan at about nine, ask for me, and tell me in front
of the gang that my aunt is dangerously ill.”</p>
<p>“What’s the sense in that?”</p>
<p>“You aren’t showing that clear, keen intelligence of
which I have often spoken so highly, Corky. Don’t you
see? The news is a terrible shock to me. It bowls me
over. I clutch at my heart——”</p>
<p>“They’ll see through it in a second.”</p>
<p>“I ask for water——”</p>
<p>“Ah, that’s a convincing touch. That’ll make them
realise you aren’t yourself.”</p>
<p>“And after awhile we leave. In fact, we leave as quickly
as we jolly well can. You see what happens? I have
established the fact that my heart is weak, and in a few
days I write and say I’ve been looked over and the wedding
must unfortunately be off because——”</p>
<p>“Damned silly idea!”</p>
<p>“Corky my boy,” said Ukridge gravely, “to a man as up
against it as I am no idea is silly that looks as if it might
work. Don’t you think this will work?”</p>
<p>“Well, it might, of course,” I admitted.</p>
<p>“Then I shall have a dash at it. I can rely on you to do
your part?”</p>
<p>“How am I supposed to know that your aunt is ill?”</p>
<p>“Perfectly simple. They ’phoned from her house, and
you are the only person who knows where I’m spending the
evening.”</p>
<p>“And will you swear that this is really all you want me
to do?”</p>
<p>“Absolutely all.”</p>
<p>“No getting me there and letting me in for something
foul?”</p>
<p>“My dear old man!”</p>
<p>“All right,” I said. “I feel in my bones that something’s
going to go wrong, but I suppose I’ve got to do it.”</p>
<p>“Spoken like a true friend,” said Ukridge.</p>
<p>At nine o’clock on the following evening I stood on the
steps of Balbriggan waiting for my ring at the bell to be
answered. Cats prowled furtively in the purple dusk, and
from behind a lighted window on the ground floor of the
house came the tinkle of a piano and the sound of voices
raised in one of the more mournful types of hymn. I
recognised Ukridge’s above the rest. He was expressing
with a vigour which nearly cracked the glass a desire to be
as a little child washed clean of sin, and it somehow seemed
to deepen my already substantial gloom. Long experience
of Ukridge’s ingenious schemes had given me a fatalistic
feeling with regard to them. With whatever fair prospects
I started out to co-operate with him on these occasions,
I almost invariably found myself entangled sooner or later
in some nightmare imbroglio.</p>
<p>The door opened. A maid appeared.</p>
<p>“Is Mr. Ukridge here?”</p>
<p>“Yes, sir.”</p>
<p>“Could I see him for a moment?”</p>
<p>I followed her into the drawing-room.</p>
<p>“Gentleman to see Mr. Ukridge, please,” said the maid,
and left me to do my stuff.</p>
<p>I was aware of a peculiar feeling. It was a sort of dry-mouthed
panic, and I suddenly recognised it as the same
helpless stage-fright which I had experienced years before
on the occasion when, the old place presumably being
short of talent, I had been picked on to sing a solo at the
annual concert at school. I gazed upon the roomful of
Prices, and words failed me. Near the bookshelf against
the wall was a stuffed seagull of blackguardly aspect,
suspended with outstretched wings by a piece of string.
It had a gaping gamboge beak and its eye was bright and
sardonic. I found myself gazing at it in a hypnotised
manner. It seemed to see through me at a glance.</p>
<p>It was Ukridge who came to the rescue. Incredibly at
his ease in this frightful room, he advanced to welcome me,
resplendent in a morning-coat, patent-leather shoes, and tie,
all of which I recognised as my property. As always when
he looted my wardrobe, he exuded wealth and respectability.</p>
<p>“Want to see me, laddie?”</p>
<p>His eye met mine meaningly, and I found speech. We
had rehearsed this little scene with a good deal of care over
the luncheon-table, and the dialogue began to come back
to me. I was able to ignore the seagull and proceed.</p>
<p>“I’m afraid I have serious news, old man,” I said, in a
hushed voice.</p>
<p>“Serious news?” said Ukridge, trying to turn pale.</p>
<p>“Serious news!”</p>
<p>I had warned him during rehearsals that this was going
to sound uncommonly like a vaudeville cross-talk act of
the Argumentative College Chums type, but he had ruled
out the objection as far-fetched. Nevertheless, that is
just what it did sound like, and I found myself blushing
warmly.</p>
<p>“What is it?” demanded Ukridge, emotionally, clutching
me by the arm in a grip like the bite of a horse.</p>
<p>“Ouch!” I cried. “Your aunt!”</p>
<p>“My aunt?”</p>
<p>“They telephoned from the house just now,” I proceeded,
warming to my work, “to say that she had had a relapse.
Her condition is very serious. They want you there at
once. Even now it may be too late.”</p>
<p>“Water!” said Ukridge, staggering back and clawing
at his waistcoat—or rather at my waistcoat, which I had
foolishly omitted to lock up. “Water!”</p>
<p>It was well done. Even I, much as I wished that he
would stop wrenching one of my best ties all out of shape,
was obliged to admit that. I suppose it was his lifelong
training in staggering under the blows of Fate that made
him so convincing. The Price family seemed to be shaken
to its foundations. There was no water in the room, but
a horde of juvenile Prices immediately rushed off in quest
of some, and meanwhile the rest of the family gathered
about the stricken man, solicitous and sympathetic.</p>
<p>“My aunt! Ill!” moaned Ukridge.</p>
<p>“I shouldn’t worry, o’ man,” said a voice at the door.</p>
<p>So sneering and altogether unpleasant was this voice
that for a moment I almost thought that it must have been
the sea-gull that had spoken. Then, turning, I perceived
a young man in a blue flannel suit. A young man whom
I had seen before. It was the Peacemaker, the fellow who
had soothed and led away the infuriated bloke to whom
Ukridge owed a bit of money.</p>
<p>“I shouldn’t worry,” he said again, and looked malevolently
upon Ukridge. His advent caused a sensation.
Mr. Price, who had been kneading Ukridge’s shoulder with
a strong man’s silent sympathy, towered as majestically
as his five feet six would permit him.</p>
<p>“Mr. Finch,” he said, “may I enquire what you are
doing in my house?”</p>
<p>“All right, ah right——”</p>
<p>“I thought I told you——”</p>
<p>“All right, all right,” repeated Ernie Finch, who appeared
to be a young man of character. “I’ve only come to
expose an impostor.”</p>
<p>“Impostor!”</p>
<p>“Him!” said young Mr. Finch, pointing a scornful
finger at Ukridge.</p>
<p>I think Ukridge was about to speak, but he seemed to
change his mind. As for me, I had edged out of the centre
of things, and was looking on as inconspicuously as I could
from behind a red plush sofa. I wished to dissociate myself
entirely from the proceedings.</p>
<p>“Ernie Finch,” said Mrs. Price, swelling, “what do you
mean?”</p>
<p>The young man seemed in no way discouraged by the
general atmosphere of hostility. He twirled his small
moustache and smiled a frosty smile.</p>
<p>“I mean,” he said, feeling in his pocket and producing
an envelope, “that this fellow here hasn’t got an aunt.
Or, if he has, she isn’t Miss Julia Ukridge, the well-known
and wealthy novelist. I had my suspicions about this
gentleman right from the first, I may as well tell you, and
ever since he came to this house I’ve been going round making
a few enquiries about him. The first thing I did was to
write his aunt—the lady he says is his aunt—making out
I wanted her nephew’s address, me being an old school
chum of his. Here’s what she writes back—you can see it
for yourselves if you want to: ‘Miss Ukridge acknowledges
receipt of Mr. Finch’s letter, and in reply wishes to state that
she has no nephew.’ No nephew! That’s plain enough,
isn’t it?” He raised a hand to check comment. “And
here’s another thing,” he proceeded. “That motor-car
he’s been swanking about in. It doesn’t belong to him at
all. It belongs to a man named Fillimore. I noted the
number and made investigations. This fellow’s name isn’t
Ukridge at all. It’s Smallweed. He’s a penniless impostor
who’s been pulling all your legs from the moment he came
into the house; and if you let Mabel marry him you’ll be
making the biggest bloomer of your lives!”</p>
<p>There was an awestruck silence. Price looked upon
Price in dumb consternation.</p>
<p>“I don’t believe you,” said the master of the house at
length, but he spoke without conviction.</p>
<p>“Then, perhaps,” retorted Ernie Finch, “you’ll believe
this gentleman. Come in, Mr. Grindlay.”</p>
<p>Bearded, frock-coated, and sinister beyond words, the
Creditor stalked into the room.</p>
<p>“You tell ’em,” said Ernie Finch.</p>
<p>The Creditor appeared more than willing. He fixed
Ukridge with a glittering eye, and his bosom heaved with
pent-up emotion.</p>
<p>“Sorry to intrude on a family on Sunday evening,” he
said, “but this young man told me I should find Mr.
Smallweed here, so I came along. I’ve been hunting for
him high and low for two years and more about a matter
of one pound two and threepence for goods supplied.”</p>
<p>“He owes you money?” faltered Mr. Price.</p>
<p>“He bilked me,” said the Creditor, precisely.</p>
<p>“Is this true?” said Mr. Price, turning to Ukridge.</p>
<p>Ukridge had risen and seemed to be wondering whether
it was possible to sidle unobserved from the room. At this
question he halted, and a weak smile played about his lips.</p>
<p>“Well——” said Ukridge.</p>
<p>The head of the family pursued his examination no
further. His mind appeared to be made up. He had
weighed the evidence and reached a decision. His eyes
flashed. He raised a hand and pointed to the door.</p>
<p>“Leave my house!” he thundered.</p>
<p>“Right-o!” said Ukridge, mildly.</p>
<p>“And never enter it again!”</p>
<p>“Right-o!” said Ukridge.</p>
<p>Mr. Price turned to his daughter.</p>
<p>“Mabel,” he said, “this engagement of yours is broken.
Broken, do you understand? I forbid you ever to see this
scoundrel again. You hear me?”</p>
<p>“All right, pa,” said Miss Price, speaking for the first
and last time. She seemed to be of a docile and equable
disposition. I fancied I caught a not-displeased glance on
its way to Ernie Finch.</p>
<p>“And now, sir,” cried Mr. Price, “go!”</p>
<p>“Right-o!” said Ukridge.</p>
<p>But here the Creditor struck a business note.</p>
<p>“And what,” he enquired, “about my one pound two
and threepence?”</p>
<p>It seemed for a moment that matters were about to
become difficult. But Ukridge, ever ready-witted, found
the solution.</p>
<p>“Have you got one pound two and threepence on you,
old man?” he said to me.</p>
<p>And with my usual bad luck I had.</p>
<p>We walked together down Peabody Road. Already
Ukridge’s momentary discomfiture had passed.</p>
<p>“It just shows, laddie,” he said, exuberantly, “that one
should never despair. However black the outlook, old
horse, never, never despair. That scheme of mine might
or might not have worked—one cannot tell. But, instead
of having to go to all the bother of subterfuge, to which I
always object, here we have a nice, clean-cut solution of
the thing without any trouble at all.” He mused happily
for a moment. “I never thought,” he said, “that the
time would come when I would feel a gush of kindly feeling
towards Ernie Finch; but, upon my Sam, laddie, if he were
here now, I would embrace the fellow. Clasp him to my
bosom, dash it!” He fell once more into a reverie.
“Amazing, old horse,” he proceeded, “how things work
out. Many a time I’ve been on the very point of paying
that blighter Grindlay his money, merely to be rid of the
annoyance of having him always popping up, but every
time something seemed to stop me. I can’t tell you what it
was—a sort of feeling. Almost as if one had a guardian
angel at one’s elbow guiding one. My gosh, just think
where I would have been if I had yielded to the impulse.
It was Grindlay blowing in that turned the scale. By gad,
Corky my boy, this is the happiest-moment of my life.”</p>
<p>“It might be the happiest of mine,” I said, churlishly,
“if I thought I should ever see that one pound two and
threepence again.”</p>
<p>“Now, laddie, laddie,” protested Ukridge, “these are
not the words of a friend. Don’t mar a moment of unalloyed
gladness. Don’t you worry, you’ll get your money
back. A thousandfold!”</p>
<p>“When?”</p>
<p>“One of these days,” said Ukridge, buoyantly. “One
of these days.”</p>
<h2 id="CH8">  CHAPTER VIII </h2>
<div class="chtitle">  THE LONG ARM OF LOONEY COOTE </div>
<p>Given private means sufficiently large to pad
them against the moulding buffets of Life, it is
extraordinary how little men change in after
years from the boys they once were. There
was a youth in my house at school named Coote. J. G.
Coote. And he was popularly known as Looney on account
of the vain and foolish superstitions which seemed to rule
his every action. Boys are hard-headed, practical persons,
and they have small tolerance for the view-point of one who
declines to join in a quiet smoke behind the gymnasium not
through any moral scruples—which, to do him justice, he
would have scorned—but purely on the ground that he had
seen a magpie that morning. This was what J. G. Coote
did, and it was the first occasion on which I remember him
being addressed as Looney.</p>
<p>But, once given, the nickname stuck; and this in spite of
the fact—seeing that we were caught half-way through the
first cigarette and forcefully dealt with by a muscular head
master—that that magpie of his would appear to have
known a thing or two. For five happy years, till we parted
to go to our respective universities, I never called Coote
anything but Looney; and it was as Looney that I greeted
him when we happened upon each other one afternoon at
Sandown, shortly after the conclusion of the three o’clock
race.</p>
<p>“Did you do anything on that one?” I asked, after we
had exchanged salutations.</p>
<p>“I went down,” replied Looney, in the subdued but not
heart-broken manner of the plutocrat who can afford to do
these things. “I had a tenner on My Valet.”</p>
<p>“On My Valet!” I cried, aghast at this inexplicable
patronage of an animal which, even in the preliminary
saunter round the paddock, had shown symptoms of lethargy
and fatigue, not to mention a disposition to trip over his
feet. “Whatever made you do that?”</p>
<p>“Yes, I suppose he never had a chance,” agreed Coote,
“but a week ago my man Spencer broke his leg, and I
thought it might be an omen.”</p>
<p>And then I knew that, for all his moustache and added
weight, he was still the old Looney of my boyhood.</p>
<p>“Is that the principle on which you always bet?” I
enquired.</p>
<p>“Well, you’d be surprised how often it works. The day
my aunt was shut up in the private asylum I collected five
hundred quid by backing Crazy Jane for the Jubilee Cup.
Have a cigarette?”</p>
<p>“Thanks.”</p>
<p>“Oh, my Lord!”</p>
<p>“Now what?”</p>
<p>“My pocket has been picked,” faltered Looney Coote,
withdrawing a trembling hand. “I had a note-case with
nearly a hundred quid, and it’s gone!”</p>
<p>The next moment I was astounded to observe a faint,
resigned smile on the man’s face.</p>
<p>“Well, that makes two,” he murmured, as if to himself.</p>
<p>“Two what?”</p>
<p>“Two misfortunes. These things always go in threes,
you know. Whenever anything rotten happens, I simply
brace myself up for the other two things. Well, there’s
only one more to come this time, thank goodness.”</p>
<p>“What was the first one?”</p>
<p>“I told you my man Spencer broke his leg.”</p>
<p>“I should have thought that would have ranked as one of
Spencer’s three misfortunes. How do you come in?”</p>
<p>“Why, my dear fellow, I’ve been having the devil of a
time since he dropped out. The ass they sent me from the
agency as a substitute is no good at all. Look at that!”
He extended a shapely leg. “Do you call that a crease?”</p>
<p>From the humble standpoint of my own bagginess, I
should have called it an excellent crease, but he seemed
thoroughly dissatisfied with it, so there was nothing to do
but tell him to set his teeth and bear it like a man, and
presently, the bell having rung for the three-thirty race, we
parted.</p>
<p>“Oh, by the way,” said Looney, as he left me, “are you
going to be at the old Wrykinian dinner next week?”</p>
<p>“Yes, I’m coming. So is Ukridge.”</p>
<p>“Ukridge? Good Lord, I haven’t seen old Ukridge for
years.”</p>
<p>“Well, he will be there. And I expect he’ll touch you
for a temporary loan. That will make your third misfortune.”</p>
<p>Ukridge’s decision to attend the annual dinner of the Old
Boys of the school at which he and I had been—in a manner
of speaking—educated had come as a surprise to me; for,
though the meal was likely to be well-cooked and sustaining,
the tickets cost half a sovereign apiece, and it was required
of the celebrants that they wear evening-dress. And,
while Ukridge sometimes possessed ten shillings which he
had acquired by pawning a dress-suit, or a dress-suit which
he had hired for ten shillings, it was unusual for him to have
the two things together. Still, he was as good as his word,
and on the night of the banquet turned up at my lodgings
for a preliminary bracer faultlessly clad and ready for the
feast.</p>
<p>Tactlessly, perhaps, I asked him what bank he had been
robbing.</p>
<p>“I thought you told me a week ago that money was
tight,” I said.</p>
<p>“It was tighter,” said Ukridge, “than these damned
trousers. Never buy ready-made dress-clothes, Corky, my
boy. They’re always unsatisfactory. But all that’s over
now. I have turned the corner, old man. Last Saturday
we cleaned up to an extraordinary extent at Sandown.”</p>
<p>“We?”</p>
<p>“The firm. I told you I had become a sleeping-partner
in a bookie’s business.”</p>
<p>“For Heaven’s sake! You don’t mean to say that it is
really making money?”</p>
<p>“Making money? My dear old lad, how could it help
making money? I told you from the first the thing was a
gold-mine. Affluence stares me in the eyeball. The day
before yesterday I bought half-a-dozen shirts. That’ll
show you!”</p>
<p>“How much have you made?”</p>
<p>“In some ways,” said Ukridge, sentimentally, “I regret
this prosperity. I mean to say, those old careless impecunious
days were not so bad. Not so bad, Corky, old boy, eh?
Life had a tang then. It was swift, vivid, interesting. And
there’s always the danger that one may allow oneself to grow
slack and enervated with wealth. Still, it has its compensations.
Yes, on the whole I am not sorry to have made my
pile.”</p>
<p>“How much have you made?” I asked again, impressed
by this time. The fact of Ukridge buying shirts for himself
instead of purloining mine suggested an almost Monte
Cristo-like opulence.</p>
<p>“Fifteen quid,” said Ukridge. “Fifteen golden sovereigns,
my boy! And out of one week’s racing! And you
must remember that the thing is going on all the year round.
Month by month, week by week, we shall expand, we shall
unfold, we shall develop. It wouldn’t be a bad scheme, old
man, to drop a judicious word here and there among the
lads at this dinner to-night, advising them to lodge their
commissions with us. Isaac O’Brien is the name of the
firm, 3 Blue Street, St. James’s. Telegraphic address,
‘Ikobee, London.’ and our representative attends all the
recognised meetings. But don’t mention my connection
with the firm. I don’t want it generally known, as it might
impair my social standing. And now, laddie, if we don’t
want to be late for this binge, we had better be starting.”</p>
<p>Ukridge, as I have recorded elsewhere, had left school
under something of a cloud. Not to put too fine a point on
it, he had been expelled for breaking out at night to attend
the local fair, and it was only after many years of cold
exclusion that he had been admitted to the pure-minded
membership of the Old Boys’ Society.</p>
<p>Nevertheless, in the matter of patriotism he yielded to no
one.</p>
<p>During our drive to the restaurant where the dinner was
to be held he grew more and more sentimental about the
dear old school, and by the time the meal was over and the
speeches began he was in the mood when men shed tears
and invite people, to avoid whom in calmer moments they
would duck down side-streets, to go on long walking tours
with them. He wandered from table to table with a large
cigar in his mouth, now exchanging reminiscences, anon
advising contemporaries who had won high positions in the
Church to place their bets with Isaac O’Brien, of 3 Blue
Street, St. James’s—a sound and trustworthy firm, telegraphic
address “Ikobee, London.”</p>
<p>The speeches at these dinners always opened with a long
and statistical harangue from the President, who, furtively
consulting his paper of notes, announced the various distinctions
gained by Old Boys during the past year. On this
occasion, accordingly, he began by mentioning that A. B.
Bodger (“Good old Bodger!”—from Ukridge) had been
awarded the Mutt-Spivis Gold Medal for Geological Research
at Oxford University—that C. D. Codger had been
appointed to the sub-junior deanery of Westchester Cathedral—(“That’s
the stuff, Codger, old horse!”)—that as a
reward for his services in connection with the building of the
new waterworks at Strelsau J. J. Swodger had received from
the Government of Ruritania the Order of the Silver Trowel,
third class (with crossed pickaxes).</p>
<p>“By the way,” said the President, concluding, “before I
finish there is one more thing I would like to say. An old
boy, B. V. Lawlor, is standing for Parliament next week at
Redbridge. If any of you would care to go down and lend
him a hand, I know he would be glad of your help.”</p>
<p>He resumed his seat, and the leather-lunged toastmaster
behind him emitted a raucous “My Lord, Mr. President,
and gentlemen, pray silence for Mr. H. K. Hodger, who will
propose the health of ‘The Visitors.’” H. K. Hodger rose
with the purposeful expression only to be seen on the face of
one who has been reminded by the remarks of the last
speaker of the story of the two Irishmen; and the company,
cosily replete, settled down to give him an indulgent attention.</p>
<p>Not so Ukridge. He was staring emotionally across the
table at his old friend Lawlor. The seating arrangements at
these dinners were usually designed to bring contemporaries
together at the same table, and the future member for Redbridge
was one of our platoon.</p>
<p>“Boko, old horse,” demanded Ukridge, “is this true?”</p>
<p>A handsome but rather prominent nose had led his little
playmates to bestow this affectionate sobriquet upon the
coming M.P. It was one of those boyish handicaps which
are never lived down, but I would not have thought of
addressing B. V. Lawlor in this fashion myself, for, though
he was a man of my own age, the years had made him
extremely dignified. Ukridge, however, was above any
such weakness. He gave out the offensive word in a vinous
bellow of such a calibre as to cause H. K. Hodger to trip
over a “begorra” and lose the drift of his story.</p>
<p>“’Sh!” said the President, bending a reproving gaze at
our table.</p>
<p>“’Sh!” said B. V. Lawlor, contorting his smooth
face.</p>
<p>“Yes, but is it?” persisted Ukridge.</p>
<p>“Of course it is,” whispered Lawlor. “Be quiet!”</p>
<p>“Then, damme,” shouted Ukridge, “rely on me, young
Boko. I shall be at your side. I shall spare no efforts to
pull you through. You can count on me to——”</p>
<p>“Really! Please! At that table down there,” said the
President, rising, while H. K. Hodger, who had got as far as
“Then, faith and begob, it’s me that’ll be afther——”
paused in a pained manner and plucked at the table-cloth.</p>
<p>Ukridge subsided. But his offer of assistance was no
passing whim, to be lightly forgotten in the slumbers of the
night. I was still in bed a few mornings later when he
burst in, equipped for travel to the last button and carrying
a seedy suit-case.</p>
<p>“Just off, laddie, just off!”</p>
<p>“Fine!” I said. “Good-bye.”</p>
<p>“Corky, my boy,” boomed Ukridge, sitting creakingly on
the bed and poisoning the air with his noisome tobacco, “I
feel happy this morning. Stimulated. And why? Because
I am doing an altruistic action. We busy men of
affairs, Corky, are too apt to exclude altruism from our lives.
We are too prone to say ‘What is there in it for me?’ and,
if there proves on investigation to be nothing in it for us, to
give it the miss-in-balk. That is why this business makes
me so confoundedly happy. At considerable expense and
inconvenience I am going down to Redbridge to-day, and
what is there in it for me? Nothing. Nothing, my boy,
except the pure delight of helping an old schoolfellow over a
tough spot. If I can do anything, however little, to bring
young Boko in at the right end of the poll, that will be
enough reward for me. I am going to do my bit, Corky,
and it may be that my bit will turn out to be just the trifle
that brings home the bacon. I shall go down there and
talk——”</p>
<p>“I bet you will.”</p>
<p>“I don’t know much about politics, it’s true, but I can
bone up enough to get by. Invective ought to meet the
case, and I’m pretty good at invective. I know the sort of
thing. You accuse the rival candidate of every low act
under the sun, without giving him quite enough to start a
libel action on. Now, what I want you to do, Corky, old
horse——”</p>
<p>“Oh heavens!” I moaned at these familiar words.</p>
<p>“——is just to polish up this election song of mine. I
sat up half the night writing it, but I can see it limps in
spots. You can put it right in half an hour. Polish it up,
laddie, and forward without fail to the Bull Hotel, Redbridge,
this afternoon. It may just be the means of shoving
Boko past the post by a nose.”</p>
<p>He clattered out hurriedly; and, sleep being now impossible,
I picked up the sheet of paper he had left and read the
verses.</p>
<p>They were well meant, but that let them out. Ukridge
was no poet or he would never have attempted to rhyme
“Lawlor” with “before us.”</p>
<p>A rather neat phrase happening to occur to me at the
breakfast table, coincident with the reflection that possibly
Ukridge was right and it did behove his old schoolfellows to
rally round the candidate, I spent the morning turning out a
new ballad. Having finished this by noon, I despatched it
to the Bull Hotel, and went off to lunch with something of
that feeling of satisfaction which, as Ukridge had pointed
out, does come to altruists. I was strolling down Piccadilly,
enjoying an after-luncheon smoke, when I ran into
Looney Coote.</p>
<p>On Looney’s amiable face there was a mingled expression
of chagrin and satisfaction.</p>
<p>“It’s happened,” he said.</p>
<p>“What?”</p>
<p>“The third misfortune. I told you it would.”</p>
<p>“What’s the trouble now? Has Spencer broken his
other leg?”</p>
<p>“My car has been stolen.”</p>
<p>A decent sympathy would no doubt have become me,
but from earliest years I had always found it difficult to
resist the temptation to be airy and jocose when dealing
with Looney Coote. The man was so indecently rich that
he had no right to have troubles.</p>
<p>“Oh, well,” I said, “you can easily get another. Fords
cost practically nothing nowadays.”</p>
<p>“It wasn’t a Ford,” bleated Looney, outraged. “It
was a brand-new Winchester-Murphy. I paid fifteen hundred
pounds for it only a month ago, and now it’s gone.”</p>
<p>“Where did you see it last?”</p>
<p>“I didn’t see it last. My chauffeur brought it round to
my rooms this morning, and, instead of staying with it as he
should have done till I was ready, went off round the corner
for a cup of coffee, so he says! And when he came back it
had vanished.”</p>
<p>“The coffee?”</p>
<p>“The car, you ass. The car had disappeared. It had
been stolen.”</p>
<p>“I suppose you have notified the police?”</p>
<p>“I’m on my way to Scotland Yard now. It just occurred
to me. Have you any idea what the procedure is? It’s
the first time I’ve been mixed up with this sort of
thing.”</p>
<p>“You give them the number of the car, and they send out
word to police-stations all over the country to look out for
it.”</p>
<p>“I see,” said Looney Coote, brightening. “That sounds
rather promising, what? I mean, it looks as if someone
would be bound to spot it sooner or later.”</p>
<p>“Yes,” I said. “Of course, the first thing a thief would
do would be to take off the number-plate and substitute a
false one.”</p>
<p>“Oh, Great Scott! Not really?”</p>
<p>“And after that he would paint the car a different
colour.”</p>
<p>“Oh, I say!”</p>
<p>“Still, the police generally manage to find them in the
end. Years hence they will come on it in an old barn with
the tonneau stoved in and the engines taken out. Then
they will hand it back to you and claim the reward. But, as
a matter of fact, what you ought to be praying is that you
may never get it back. Then the thing would be a real misfortune.
If you get it back as good as new in the next
couple of days, it won’t be a misfortune at all, and you will
have number three hanging over your head again, just as
before. And who knows what that third misfortune may
be? In a way, you’re tempting Providence by applying to
Scotland Yard.”</p>
<p>“Yes,” said Looney Coote, doubtfully. “All the same,
I think I will, don’t you know. I mean to say, after all,
a fifteen-hundred-quid Winchester-Murphy <i>is </i> a fifteen-hundred-quid
Winchester-Murphy, if you come right down
to it, what?”</p>
<p>Showing that even in the most superstitious there may
be grains of hard, practical common sense lurking somewhere.</p>
<p>It had not been my intention originally to take any part
in the by-election in the Redbridge division beyond writing
three verses of a hymn in praise of Boko Lawlor and sending
him a congratulatory wire if he won. But two things combined
to make me change my mind. The first was the fact
that it occurred to me—always the keen young journalist—that
there might be a couple of guineas of <i>Interesting Bits </i>
money in it (“How a Modern Election is Fought: Humours
of the Poll”); the second, that, ever since his departure
Ukridge had been sending me a constant stream of telegrams
so stimulating that eventually they lit the spark.</p>
<p>I append specimens:—</p>
<blockquote>
<p class="p0">“Going strong. Made three speeches yesterday.
  Election song a sensation. Come on down.—<span class="smcap">Ukridge</span>.”</p>
<p class="p0">“Boko locally regarded as walk-over. Made four
  speeches yesterday. Election song a breeze. Common
  down.—<span class="smcap">Ukridge</span>.”</p>
<p class="p0">“Victory in sight. Spoke practically all yesterday.
  Election song a riot. Children croon it in cots. Come on
  down.—<span class="smcap">Ukridge</span>.”</p>
</blockquote>
<p>I leave it to any young author to say whether a man with
one solitary political lyric to his credit could have resisted
this. With the exception of a single music-hall song
(“Mother, She’s Pinching My Leg,” tried out by Tim Sims,
the Koy Komic, at the Peebles Hippodrome, and discarded,
in response to a popular appeal, after one performance), no
written words of mine had ever passed human lips. Naturally,
it gave me a certain thrill to imagine the enlightened
electorate of Redbridge—at any rate, the right-thinking
portion of it—bellowing in its thousands those noble
lines:—</p>
<div class="poem">
<div class="stanza">
<div class="line">  “No foreign foe’s insidious hate </div>
<div class="line1">    Our country shall o’erwhelm </div>
<div class="line">   So long as England’s ship of state </div>
<div class="line1">     Has <span class="smcap">LAWLOR</span> at the helm.” </div>
</div>
</div>
<p>Whether I was technically correct in describing as guiding
the ship of state a man who would probably spend his
entire Parliamentary career in total silence, voting meekly
as the Whip directed, I had not stopped to enquire. All I
knew was that it sounded well, and I wanted to hear it. In
addition to which, there was the opportunity, never likely
to occur again, of seeing Ukridge make an ass of himself
before a large audience.</p>
<p>I went to Redbridge.</p>
<p>The first thing I saw on leaving the station was a very
large poster exhibiting Boko Lawlor’s expressive features,
bearing the legend:—</p>
<div class="poster">  Lawlor </div>
<div class="poster">  for </div>
<div class="poster">  Redbridge. </div>
<p>This was all right, but immediately beside it, evidently
placed there by the hand of an enemy, was a still larger caricature
of this poster which stressed my old friend’s prominent
nose in a manner that seemed to me to go beyond
the limits of a fair debate. To this was appended the
words:—</p>
<div class="poster">    Do You </div>
<div class="poster">    Want </div>
<div class="poster"> <i>THIS </i> </div>
<div class="poster">    For a Member? </div>
<p>To which, if I had been a hesitating voter of the constituency,
I would certainly have replied “No!” for there was
something about that grossly elongated nose that convicted
the man beyond hope of appeal of every undesirable quality
a Member of Parliament can possess. You could see at a
glance that here was one who, if elected, would do his underhand
best to cut down the Navy, tax the poor man’s food,
and strike a series of blows at the very root of the home.
And, as if this were not enough, a few yards farther on was a
placard covering almost the entire side of a house, which
said in simple, straightforward black letters a foot high:—</p>
<div class="poster">  Down With </div>
<div class="poster">  Boko, </div>
<div class="poster">  The Human Gargoyle. </div>
<p>How my poor old contemporary, after passing a week in
the constant society of these slurs on his personal appearance,
could endure to look himself in the face in his shaving-mirror
of a morning was more than I could see. I commented
on this to Ukridge, who had met me at the station
in a luxurious car.</p>
<p>“Oh, that’s nothing,” said Ukridge, huskily. The first
thing I had noticed about him was that his vocal cords had
been putting in overtime since our last meeting. “Just
the usual give-and-take of an election. When we get round
this next corner you’ll see the poster we’ve got out to tickle
up the other bloke. It’s a pippin.”</p>
<p>I did, and it was indeed a pippin. After one glance at it
as we rolled by, I could not but feel that the electors of
Redbridge were in an uncommonly awkward position,
having to choose between Boko, as exhibited in the street
we had just passed, and this horror now before me. Mr.
Herbert Huxtable, the opposition candidate, seemed to run
as generously to ears as his adversary did to nose, and the
artist had not overlooked this feature. Indeed, except for
a mean, narrow face with close-set eyes and a murderer’s
mouth, Mr. Huxtable appeared to be all ears. They
drooped and flapped about him like carpet-bags, and I
averted my gaze, appalled.</p>
<p>“Do you mean to say you’re <i>allowed </i> to do this sort of
thing?” I asked, incredulously.</p>
<p>“My dear old horse, it’s expected of you. It’s a mere
formality. The other side would feel awkward and disappointed
if you didn’t.”</p>
<p>“And how did they find out about Lawlor being called
Boko?” I enquired, for the point had puzzled me. In a
way, you might say that it was the only thing you could
possibly call him, but the explanation hardly satisfied me.</p>
<p>“That,” admitted Ukridge, “was largely my fault. I
was a bit carried away the first time I addressed the multitude,
and I happened to allude to the old chap by his nickname.
Of course, the opposition took it up at once. Boko
was a little sore about it for a while.”</p>
<p>“I can see how he might be.”</p>
<p>“But that’s all over now,” said Ukridge, buoyantly.
“We’re the greatest pals. He relies on me at every turn.
Yesterday he admitted to me in so many words that if he
gets in it’ll be owing to my help as much as anything. The
fact is, laddie, I’ve made rather a hit with the manyheaded.
They seem to like to hear me speak.”</p>
<p>“Fond of a laugh, eh?”</p>
<p>“Now, laddie,” said Ukridge, reprovingly, “this is not
the right tone. You must curb that spirit of levity while
you’re down here. This is a dashed serious business, Corky,
old man, and the sooner you realise it the better. If you
have come here to gibe and to mock——”</p>
<p>“I came to hear my election song sung. When do they
sing it?”</p>
<p>“Oh, practically all the time. Incessantly, you might
say.”</p>
<p>“In their baths?”</p>
<p>“Most of the voters here don’t take baths. You’ll
gather that when we reach Biscuit Row.”</p>
<p>“What’s Biscuit Row?”</p>
<p>“It’s the quarter of the town where the blokes live who
work in Fitch and Weyman’s biscuit factory, laddie. It’s
what you might call,” said Ukridge, importantly, “the
doubtful element of the place. All the rest of the town is
nice and clean-cut, they’re either solid for Boko or nuts on
Huxtable—but these biscuit blokes are wobbly. That’s
why we have to canvass them so carefully.”</p>
<p>“Oh, you’re going canvassing, are you?”</p>
<p>“<i>We </i> are,” corrected Ukridge.</p>
<p>“Not me!”</p>
<p>“Corky,” said Ukridge, firmly, “pull yourself together.
It was principally to assist me in canvassing these biscuit
blighters that I got you down here. Where’s your patriotism,
laddie? Don’t you want old Boko to get into Parliament,
or what is it? We must strain every nerve. We
must set our hands to the plough. The job you’ve got to
tackle is the baby-kissing——”</p>
<p>“I won’t kiss their infernal babies!”</p>
<p>“You will, old horse, unless you mean to spend the rest
of your life cursing yourself vainly when it is too late that
poor old Boko got pipped on the tape purely on account of
your poltroonery. Consider, old man! Have some
vision! Be an altruist! It may be that your efforts will
prove the deciding factor in this desperately close-run race.”</p>
<p>“What do you mean, desperately close-run race? You
said in your wire that it was a walk-over for Boko.”</p>
<p>“That was just to fool the telegraph-bloke, whom I suspect
of being in the enemy camp. As a matter of fact,
between ourselves, it’s touch and go. A trifle either way
will do the business now.”</p>
<p>“Why don’t <i>you </i> kiss these beastly babies?”</p>
<p>“There’s something about me that scares ’em, laddie.
I’ve tried it once or twice, but only alienated several valuable
voters by frightening their offspring into a nervous
collapse. I think it’s my glasses they don’t like. But you—now,
you,” said Ukridge, with revolting fulsomeness,
“are an ideal baby-kisser. The first time I ever saw you, I
said: ‘There goes one of Nature’s baby-kissers.’ Directly
I started to canvass these people and realised what I was up
against, I thought of you. ‘Corky’s the man,’ I said to
myself; ‘the fellow we want is old Corky. Good-looking.
And not merely good-looking but <i>kind</i>-looking.’ They’ll
take to you, laddie. Yours is a face a baby can trust——”</p>
<p>“Now, listen!”</p>
<p>“And it won’t last long. Just a couple of streets and
we’re through. So stiffen your backbone, laddie, and go at
it like a man. Boko is going to entertain you with a magnificent
banquet at his hotel to-night. I happen to know
there will be champagne. Keep your mind fixed on that
and the thing will seem easy.”</p>
<p>The whole question of canvassing is one which I would
like some time to go into at length. I consider it to be an
altogether abominable practice. An Englishman’s home is
his castle, and it seems to me intolerable that, just as you
have got into shirt-sleeves and settled down to a soothing
pipe, total strangers should be permitted to force their way
in and bother you with their nauseous flattery and their
impertinent curiosity as to which way you mean to vote.
And, while I prefer not to speak at length of my experiences
in Biscuit Row, I must say this much, that practically
every resident of that dingy quarter appeared to see eye to
eye with me in this matter. I have never encountered a
body of men who were consistently less chummy. They
looked at me with lowering brows, they answered my limping
civilities with gruff monosyllables, they snatched their
babies away from me and hid them, yelling, in distant parts
of the house. Altogether a most discouraging experience,
I should have said, and one which seemed to indicate that,
as far as Biscuit Row was concerned, Boko Lawlor would
score a blank at the poll.</p>
<p>Ukridge scoffed at this gloomy theory.</p>
<p>“My dear old horse,” he cried, exuberantly, as the door
of the last house slammed behind us and I revealed to him
the inferences I had drawn, “you mustn’t mind that. It’s
just their way. They treat everybody the same. Why,
one of Huxtable’s fellows got his hat smashed in at that very
house we’ve just left. I consider the outlook highly promising,
laddie.”</p>
<p>And so, to my surprise, did the candidate himself. When
we had finished dinner that night and were talking over our
cigars, while Ukridge slumbered noisily in an easy chair,
Boko Lawlor spoke with a husky confidence of his prospects.</p>
<p>“And, curiously enough,” said Boko, endorsing what
until then I had looked on as mere idle swank on Ukridge’s
part, “the fellow who will have really helped me more than
anybody else, if I get in, is old Ukridge. He borders, perhaps,
a trifle too closely on the libellous in his speeches, but
he certainly has the knack of talking to an audience. In
the past week he has made himself quite a prominent figure
in Redbridge. In fact, I’m bound to say it has made me a
little nervous at times, this prominence of his. I know what
an erratic fellow he is, and if he were to become the centre of
some horrible scandal it would mean defeat for a certainty.”</p>
<p>“How do you mean, scandal?”</p>
<p>“I sometimes conjure up a dreadful vision,” said Boko
Lawlor, with a slight shudder, “of one of his creditors
suddenly rising in the audience and denouncing him for not
having paid for a pair of trousers or something.”</p>
<p>He cast an apprehensive eye at the sleeping figure.</p>
<p>“You’re all right if he keeps on wearing that suit,” I said,
soothingly, “because it happens to be one he sneaked from
me. I have been wondering why it was so familiar.”</p>
<p>“Well, anyhow,” said Boko, with determined optimism,
“I suppose, if anything like that was going to happen, it
would have happened before. He has been addressing
meetings all the week, and nothing has occurred. I’m
going to let him open the ball at our last rally to-morrow
night. He has a way of warming up the audience. You’ll
come to that, of course?”</p>
<p>“If I am to see Ukridge warming up an audience, nothing
shall keep me away.”</p>
<p>“I’ll see that you get a seat on the platform. It will be
the biggest affair we have had. The polling takes place on
the next day, and this will be our last chance of swaying the
doubters.”</p>
<p>“I didn’t know doubters ever came to these meetings. I
thought the audience was always solid for the speakers.”</p>
<p>“It may be so in some constituencies,” said Boko,
moodily, “but it certainly isn’t at Redbridge.”</p>
<p>The monster meeting in support of Boko Lawlor’s candidature
was held at that popular eyesore, the Associated
Mechanics’ Hall. As I sat among the elect on the platform,
waiting for the proceedings to commence, there came up to
me a mixed scent of dust, clothes, orange-peel, chalk, wood,
plaster, pomade, and Associated Mechanics—the whole
forming a mixture which, I began to see, was likely to prove
too rich for me. I changed my seat in order to bring myself
next to a small but promising-looking door, through which
it would be possible, if necessary, to withdraw without being
noticed.</p>
<p>The principle on which chairmen at these meetings are
selected is perhaps too familiar to require recording here at
length, but in case some of my readers are not acquainted
with the workings of political machines, I may say that no
one under the age of eighty-five is eligible and the preference
is given to those with adenoids. For Boko Lawlor the
authorities had extended themselves and picked a champion
of his class. In addition to adenoids, the Right Hon. the
Marquess of Cricklewood had—or seemed to have—a
potato of the maximum size and hotness in his mouth, and
he had learned his elocution in one of those correspondence
schools which teach it by mail. I caught his first sentence—that
he would only detain us a moment—but for fifteen
minutes after that he baffled me completely. That he was
still speaking I could tell by the way his Adam’s apple
wiggled, but what he was saying I could not even guess.
And presently, the door at my side offering its silent invitation,
I slid softly through and closed it behind me.</p>
<p>Except for the fact that I was now out of sight of the
chairman, I did not seem to have bettered my position
greatly. The scenic effects of the hall had not been alluring,
but there was nothing much more enlivening to look at
here. I found myself in a stone-flagged corridor with walls
of an unhealthy green, ending in a flight of stairs. I was
just about to proceed towards these in a casual spirit of
exploration, when footsteps made themselves heard, and in
another moment a helmet loomed into view, followed by a
red face, a blue uniform, and large, stout boots—making in
all one constable, who proceeded along the corridor towards
me with a measured step as if pacing a beat. I thought his
face looked stern and disapproving, and attributed it to the
fact that I had just lighted a cigarette—presumably in a
place where smoking was not encouraged. I dropped the
cigarette and placed a guilty heel on it—an action which I
regretted the next moment, when the constable himself
produced one from the recesses of his tunic and asked me
for a match.</p>
<p>“Not allowed to smoke on duty,” he said, affably, “but
there’s no harm in a puff.”</p>
<p>I saw now that what I had taken for a stern and disapproving
look was merely the official mask. I agreed that no
possible harm could come of a puff.</p>
<p>“Meeting started?” enquired the officer, jerking his
head towards the door.</p>
<p>“Yes. The chairman was making a few remarks when I
came out.”</p>
<p>“Ah! Better give it time to warm up,” he said, cryptically.
And there was a restful silence for some minutes,
while the scent of a cigarette of small price competed with
the other odours of the corridor.</p>
<p>Presently, however, the stillness was interrupted. From
the unseen hall came the faint clapping of hands, and then
a burst of melody. I started. It was impossible to distinguish
the words, but surely there was no mistaking that
virile rhythm:—</p>
<div class="poem">
<div class="stanza">
<div class="line">  “Tum tumty tumty tumty tum, </div>
<div class="line1">    Tum tumty tumty tum, </div>
<div class="line">  Tum tumty tumty tumty tum, </div>
<div class="line1">    Tum <span class="smcap">TUMTY</span> tumty tum.” </div>
</div>
</div>
<p>It was! It must be! I glowed all over with modest
pride.</p>
<p>“That’s mine,” I said, with attempted nonchalance.</p>
<p>“Ur?” queried the constable, who had fallen into a
reverie.</p>
<p>“That thing they’re singing. Mine. My election
song.”</p>
<p>It seemed to me that the officer regarded me strangely.
It may have been admiration, but it looked more like disappointment
and disfavour.</p>
<p>“You on this Lawlor’s side?” he demanded, heavily.</p>
<p>“Yes. I wrote his election song. They’re singing it
now.”</p>
<p>“I’m opposed to ’im <i>in toto </i> and root and branch,” said
the constable, emphatically, “I don’t like ’is views—subversive,
that’s what I call ’em. Subversive.”</p>
<p>There seemed nothing to say to this. This divergence of
opinion was unfortunate, but there it was. After all, there
was no reason why political differences should have to interfere
with what had all the appearance of being the dawning
of a beautiful friendship. Pass over it lightly, that was the
tactful course. I endeavoured to steer the conversation
gently back to less debatable grounds.</p>
<p>“This is my first visit to Redbridge,” I said, chattily.</p>
<p>“Ur?” said the constable, but I could see that he was
not interested. He finished his cigarette with three rapid
puffs and stamped it out. And as he did so a strange, purposeful
tenseness seemed to come over him. His boiled-fish
eyes seemed to say that the time of dalliance was now
ended and constabulary duty was to be done. “Is that
the way to the platform, mister?” he asked, indicating my
door with a jerk of the helmet.</p>
<p>I cannot say why it was, but at this moment a sudden
foreboding swept over me.</p>
<p>“Why do you want to go on the platform?” I asked,
apprehensively.</p>
<p>There was no doubt about the disfavour with which he
regarded me now. So frigid was his glance that I backed
against the door in some alarm.</p>
<p>“Never you mind,” he said, severely, “why I want to go
on that platform. If you really want to know,” he continued,
with that slight inconsistency which marks great
minds, “I’m goin’ there to arrest a feller.”</p>
<p>It was perhaps a little uncomplimentary to Ukridge that
I should so instantly have leaped to the certainty that, if
anybody on a platform on which he sat was in danger of
arrest, he must be the man. There were at least twenty
other earnest supporters of Boko grouped behind the chairman
beyond that door, but it never even occurred to me as
a possibility that it could be one of these on whom the hand
of the law proposed to descend. And a moment later my
instinct was proved to be unerring. The singing had
ceased, and now a stentorian voice had begun to fill all
space. It spoke, was interrupted by a roar of laughter, and
began to speak again.</p>
<p>“That’s ’im,” said the constable, briefly.</p>
<p>“There must be some mistake,” I said. “That is my
friend, Mr. Ukridge.”</p>
<p>“I don’t know ’is name and I don’t care about ’is name,”
said the constable, sternly. “But if ’e’s the big feller with
glasses that’s stayin’ at the Bull, that’s the man I’m after.
He may be a ’ighly ’umorous and diverting orator,” said the
constable, bitterly, as another happy burst of laughter
greeted what was presumably a further sally at the expense
of the side which enjoyed his support, “but, be that as it
may, ’e’s got to come along with me to the station and
explain how ’e ’appens to be in possession of a stolen car
that there’s been an enquiry sent out from ’eadquarters
about.”</p>
<p>My heart turned to water. A light had flashed upon me.</p>
<p>“Car?” I quavered.</p>
<p>“Car,” said the constable.</p>
<p>“Was it a gentleman named Coote who lodged the complaint
about his car being stolen? Because——”</p>
<p>“I don’t——”</p>
<p>“Because, if so, there has been a mistake. Mr. Ukridge
is a personal friend of Mr. Coote, and——”</p>
<p>“I don’t know whose name it is’s car’s been stolen,” said
the constable, elliptically. “All I know is, there’s been an
enquiry sent out, and this feller’s got it.”</p>
<p>At this point something hard dug into the small of my
back as I pressed against the door. I stole a hand round
behind me, and my fingers closed upon a key. The policeman
was stooping to retrieve a dropped notebook. I
turned the key softly and pocketed it.</p>
<p>“If you would kindly not object to standing back a bit
and giving a feller a chance to get at that door,” said the
policeman, straightening himself. He conducted experiments
with the handle. “’Ere, it’s locked!”</p>
<p>“Is it?” I said. “Is it?”</p>
<p>“’Ow did you get out through this door if it’s locked?”</p>
<p>“It wasn’t locked when I came through.”</p>
<p>He eyed me with dull suspicion for a moment, then
knocked imperatively with a large red knuckle.</p>
<p>“Shush! Shush!” came a scandalised whisper through
the keyhole.</p>
<p>“Never you mind about ‘Shush! Shush!’” said the
constable, with asperity. “You open this door, that’s
what you do.” And he substituted for the knuckle a leg-of-mutton-like
fist. The sound of his banging boomed through
the corridor like distant thunder.</p>
<p>“Really, you know,” I protested, “you’re disturbing the
meeting.”</p>
<p>“I <i>want </i> to disturb the meeting,” replied this strong but
not silent man, casting a cold look over his shoulder. And
the next instant, to prove that he was as ready with deeds
as with words, he backed a foot or two, lifted a huge and
weighty foot, and kicked.</p>
<p>For all ordinary purposes the builder of the Associated
Mechanics’ Hall had done his work adequately, but he had
never suspected that an emergency might arise which would
bring his doors into competition with a policeman’s foot.
Any lesser maltreatment the lock might have withstood,
but against this it was powerless. With a sharp sound like
the cry of one registering a formal protest the door gave
way. It swung back, showing a vista of startled faces
beyond. Whether or not the noise had reached the audience
in the body of the hall I did not know, but it had
certainly impressed the little group on the platform. I had
a swift glimpse of forms hurrying to the centre of the disturbance,
of the chairman gaping like a surprised sheep, of
Ukridge glowering; and then the constable blocked out my
view as he marched forward over the debris.</p>
<p>A moment later there was no doubt as to whether the
audience was interested. A confused uproar broke out in
every corner of the hall, and, hurrying on to the platform, I
perceived that the hand of the Law had fallen. It was
grasping Ukridge’s shoulder in a weighty grip in the sight of
all men.</p>
<p>There was just one instant before the tumult reached its
height in which it was possible for the constable to speak
with a chance of making himself heard. He seized his
opportunity adroitly. He threw back his head and bellowed
as if he were giving evidence before a deaf magistrate.</p>
<p>“’E’s—stolen—a—mo—tor—car! I’m a-r-resting—’im—for—’avin’—sto—len—a—norter-mo<i>bile! </i>”
he vociferated in accents audible to all. And then, with the
sudden swiftness of one practised in the art of spiriting
felons away from the midst of their friends, he was gone,
and Ukridge with him.</p>
<p>There followed a long moment of bewildered amazement.
Nothing like this had ever happened before at political
meetings at Redbridge, and the audience seemed doubtful
how to act. The first person to whom intelligence returned
was a grim-looking little man in the third row, who had
forced himself into prominence during the chairman’s
speech with some determined heckling. He bounded out of
his chair and stood on it.</p>
<p>“Men of Redbridge!” he shouted.</p>
<p>“Siddown!” roared the audience automatically.</p>
<p>“Men of Redbridge,” repeated the little man, in a voice
out of all proportion to his inches, “are you going to trust—do
you mean to support—-is it your intention to place your
affairs in the hands of one who employs <i>criminals</i>——”</p>
<p>“Siddown!” recommended many voices, but there were
many others that shouted “’Ear, ’Ear!”</p>
<p>“——who employs <i>criminals </i> to speak on his platform?
Men of Redbridge, I——”</p>
<p>Here someone grasped the little man’s collar and brought
him to the floor. Somebody else hit the collar-grasper over
the head with an umbrella. A third party broke the umbrella
and smote its owner on the nose. And after that the action
may be said to have become general. Everybody seemed
to be fighting everybody else, and at the back of the hall a
group of serious thinkers, in whom I seemed to recognise the
denizens of Biscuit Row, had begun to dismember the chairs
and throw them at random. It was when the first rush was
made for the platform that the meeting definitely broke up.
The chairman headed the stampede for my little door,
moving well for a man of his years, and he was closely
followed by the rest of the elect. I came somewhere midway
in the procession, outstripped by the leaders, but well
up in the field. The last I saw of the monster meeting in
aid of Boko Lawlor’s candidature was Boko’s drawn and
agonised face as he barked his shin on an overturned table
in his efforts to reach the exit in three strides.</p>
<p>The next morning dawned bright and fair, and the sun,
as we speeded back to London, smiled graciously in through
the windows of our third-class compartment. But it
awoke no answering smile on Ukridge’s face. He sat in his
corner scowling ponderously out at the green countryside.
He seemed in no way thankful that his prison-life was over,
and he gave me no formal thanks for the swiftness and
intelligence with which I had obtained his release.</p>
<p>A five-shilling telegram to Looney Coote had been the
means of effecting this. Shortly after breakfast Ukridge
had come to my hotel, a free man, with the information that
Looney had wired the police of Redbridge directions to
unbar the prison cell. But liberty he appeared to consider
a small thing compared with his wrongs, and now he sat in
the train, thinking, thinking, thinking.</p>
<p>I was not surprised when his first act on reaching Paddington
was to climb into a cab and request the driver to
convey him immediately to Looney Coote’s address.</p>
<p>Personally, though I was considerate enough not to say
so, I was pro-Coote. If Ukridge wished to go about sneaking
his friends’ cars without a word of explanation, it
seemed to me that he did so at his own risk. I could not
see how Looney Coote could be expected to know by some
form of telepathy that his vanished Winchester-Murphy had
fallen into the hands of an old schoolfellow. But Ukridge,
to judge by his stony stare and tightened lips, not to mention
the fact that his collar had jumped off its stud and he
had made no attempt to adjust it, thought differently. He
sat in the cab, brooding silently, and when we reached our
destination and were shown into Looney’s luxurious sitting-room,
he gave one long, deep sigh, like that of a fighter who
hears the gong go for round one.</p>
<p>Looney fluttered out of the adjoining room in pyjamas
and a flowered dressing-gown. He was evidently a late
riser.</p>
<p>“Oh, here you are!” he said, pleased. “I say, old man,
I’m awfully glad it’s all right.”</p>
<p>“All right!” An overwrought snort escaped Ukridge.
His bosom swelled beneath his mackintosh. “All right!”</p>
<p>“I’m frightfully sorry there was any trouble.”</p>
<p>Ukridge struggled for utterance.</p>
<p>“Do you know I spent the night on a beastly plank
bed,” he said, huskily.</p>
<p>“No, really? I say!”</p>
<p>“Do you know that this morning I was washed by the
authorities?”</p>
<p>“I say, no!”</p>
<p>“And you say it’s all right!”</p>
<p>He had plainly reached the point where he proposed to
deliver a lengthy address of a nature calculated to cause
alarm and despondency in Looney Coote, for he raised a
clenched fist, shook it passionately, and swallowed once or
twice. But before he could embark on what would certainly
have been an oration worth listening to, his host
anticipated him.</p>
<p>“I don’t see that it was my fault,” bleated Looney Coote,
voicing my own sentiments.</p>
<p>“You don’t see that it was your fault!” stuttered
Ukridge.</p>
<p>“Listen, old man,” I urged, pacifically. “I didn’t like
to say so before, because you didn’t seem in the mood for it,
but what else could the poor chap have done? You took
his car without a word of explanation——”</p>
<p>“What?”</p>
<p>“——and naturally he thought it had been stolen and
had word sent out to the police-stations to look out for whoever
had got it. As a matter of fact, it was I who advised
him to.”</p>
<p>Ukridge was staring bleakly at Looney.</p>
<p>“Without a word of explanation!” he echoed. “What
about my letter, the long and carefully-written letter I sent
you explaining the whole thing?”</p>
<p>“Letter?”</p>
<p>“Yes!”</p>
<p>“I got no letter,” said Looney Coote.</p>
<p>Ukridge laughed malevolently.</p>
<p>“You’re going to pretend it went wrong in the post, eh?
Thin, very thin. I am certain that letter was posted. I
remember placing it in my pocket for that purpose. It is
not there now, and I have been wearing this suit ever since
I left London. See. These are all the contents of my——”</p>
<p>His voice trailed off as he gazed at the envelope in his
hand. There was a long silence. Ukridge’s jaw dropped
slowly.</p>
<p>“Now, how the deuce did that happen?” he murmured.</p>
<p>I am bound to say that Looney Coote in this difficult
moment displayed a nice magnanimity which I could never
have shown. He merely nodded sympathetically.</p>
<p>“I’m always doing that sort of thing myself,” he said.
“Never can remember to post letters. Well, now that
that’s all explained, have a drink, old man, and let’s forget
about it.”</p>
<p>The gleam in Ukridge’s eye showed that the invitation
was a welcome one, but the battered relics of his conscience
kept him from abandoning the subject under discussion as
his host had urged.</p>
<p>“But upon my Sam, Looney, old horse,” he stammered,
“I—well, dash it, I don’t know what to say. I mean——”</p>
<p>Looney Coote was fumbling in the sideboard for the
materials for a friendly carouse.</p>
<p>“Don’t say another word, old man, not another word,”
he pleaded. “It’s the sort of thing that might have
happened to anyone. And, as a matter of fact, the whole
affair has done me a bit of good. Dashed lucky it has
turned out for me. You see, it came as a sort of omen.
There was an absolute outsider running in the third race at
Kempton Park the day after the car went called Stolen
Goods, and somehow it seemed to me that the thing had
been sent for a purpose. I crammed on thirty quid at
twenty-five to one. The people round about laughed when
they saw me back this poor, broken-down-looking moke,
and, dash it, the animal simply romped home! I collected
a parcel!”</p>
<p>We clamoured our congratulations on this happy ending.
Ukridge was especially exuberant.</p>
<p>“Yes,” said Looney Coote, “I won seven hundred and
fifty quid. Just like that! I put it on with that new fellow
you were telling me about at the O. W. dinner, old man—that
chap Isaac O’Brien. It sent him absolutely broke and
he’s had to go out of business. He’s only paid me six hundred
quid so far, but says he has some sort of a sleeping
partner or something who may be able to raise the balance.”</p>
<h2 id="CH9">  CHAPTER IX </h2>
<div class="chtitle">  THE EXIT OF BATTLING BILLSON </div>
<p>The Theatre Royal, Llunindnno, is in the middle
of the principal thoroughfare of that repellent
town, and immediately opposite its grubby
main entrance there is a lamp-post. Under
this lamp-post, as I approached, a man was standing. He
was a large man, and his air was that of one who has recently
passed through some trying experience. There was dust
on his person, and he had lost his hat. At the sound of my
footsteps he turned, and the rays of the lamp revealed the
familiar features of my old friend Stanley Featherstonehaugh
Ukridge.</p>
<p>“Great Scot!” I ejaculated. “What are you doing
here?”</p>
<p>There was no possibility of hallucination. It was the
man himself in the flesh. And what Ukridge, a free agent,
could be doing in Llunindnno was more than I could
imagine. Situated, as its name implies, in Wales, it is a dark,
dingy, dishevelled spot, inhabited by tough and sinister
men with suspicious eyes and three-day beards; and to me,
after a mere forty minutes’ sojourn in the place, it was incredible
that anyone should be there except on compulsion.</p>
<p>Ukridge gaped at me incredulously.</p>
<p>“Corky, old horse!” he said, “this is, upon my Sam,
without exception the most amazing event in the world’s
history. The last bloke I expected to see.”</p>
<p>“Same here. Is anything the matter?” I asked, eyeing
his bedraggled appearance.</p>
<p>“Matter? I should say something was the matter!”
snorted Ukridge, astonishment giving way to righteous
indignation. “They chucked me out!”</p>
<p>“Chucked you out? Who? Where from?”</p>
<p>“This infernal theatre, laddie. After taking my good
money, dash it! At least, I got it on my face, but that has
nothing to do with the principle of the thing. Corky, my
boy, don’t you ever go about this world seeking for justice,
because there’s no such thing under the broad vault of
heaven. I had just gone out for a breather after the first
act, and when I came back I found some fiend in human
shape had pinched my seat. And just because I tried to
lift the fellow out by the ears, a dozen hired assassins
swooped down and shot me out. Me, I’ll trouble you!
The injured party! Upon my Sam,” he said, heatedly,
with a longing look at the closed door, “I’ve a dashed good
mind to——”</p>
<p>“I shouldn’t,” I said, soothingly. “After all, what
does it matter? It’s just one of those things that are
bound to happen from time to time. The man of affairs
passes them off with a light laugh.”</p>
<p>“Yes, but——”</p>
<p>“Come and have a drink.”</p>
<p>The suggestion made him waver. The light of battle
died down in his eyes. He stood for a moment in thought.</p>
<p>“You wouldn’t bung a brick through the window?”
he queried, doubtfully.</p>
<p>“No, no!”</p>
<p>“Perhaps you’re right.”</p>
<p>He linked his arm in mine and we crossed the road to
where the lights of a public-house shone like heartening
beacons. The crisis was over.</p>
<p>“Corky,” said Ukridge, warily laying down his mug of
beer on the counter a few moments later, lest emotion
should cause him to spill any of its precious contents, “I
can’t get over, I simply cannot get over the astounding
fact of your being in this blighted town.”</p>
<p>I explained my position. My presence in Llunindnno
was due to the fact that the paper which occasionally made
use of my services as a special writer had sent me to compose
a fuller and more scholarly report than its local correspondent
seemed capable of concocting of the activities of
one Evan Jones, the latest of those revivalists who periodically
convulse the emotions of the Welsh mining population.
His last and biggest meeting was to take place next morning
at eleven o’clock.</p>
<p>“But what are you doing here?” I asked.</p>
<p>“What am <i>I </i> doing here?” said Ukridge. “Who, me?
Why, where else would you expect me to be? Haven’t
you heard?”</p>
<p>“Heard what?”</p>
<p>“Haven’t you seen the posters?”</p>
<p>“What posters? I only arrived an hour ago.”</p>
<p>“My dear old horse! Then naturally you aren’t abreast
of local affairs.” He drained his mug, breathed contentedly,
and led me out into the street. “Look!”</p>
<p>He was pointing at a poster, boldly lettered in red and
black, which decorated the side-wall of the Bon Ton
Millinery Emporium. The street-lighting system of Llunindnno
is defective, but I was able to read what it said:—</p>
<div class="poster">    ODDFELLOWS’ HALL </div>
<div class="poster2">    Special Ten-Round Contest. </div>
<div class="poster">    LLOYD THOMAS </div>
<div class="poster2">    (Llunindnno) </div>
<div class="poster2"> <i>vs. </i> </div>
<div class="poster">    BATTLING BILLSON </div>
<div class="poster2">    (Bermondsey). </div>
<p>“Comes off to-morrow night,” said Ukridge. “And I
don’t mind telling you, laddie, that I expect to make a
colossal fortune.”</p>
<p>“Are you still managing the Battler?” I said, surprised
at this dogged perseverance. “I should have thought
that after your last two experiences you would have had
about enough of it.”</p>
<p>“Oh, he means business this time! I’ve been talking to
him like a father.”</p>
<p>“How much does he get?”</p>
<p>“Twenty quid.”</p>
<p>“Twenty quid? Well, where does the colossal fortune
come in? Your share will only be a tenner.”</p>
<p>“No, my boy. You haven’t got on to my devilish
shrewdness. I’m not in on the purse at all this time. I’m
the management.”</p>
<p>“The management?”</p>
<p>“Well, part of it. You remember Isaac O’Brien, the
bookie I was partner with till that chump Looney Coote
smashed the business? Izzy Previn is his real name.
We’ve gone shares in this thing. Izzy came down a week
ago, hired the hall, and looked after the advertising and
so on; and I arrived with good old Billson this afternoon.
We’re giving him twenty quid, and the other fellow’s getting
another twenty; and all the rest of the cash Izzy and I
split on a fifty-fifty basis. Affluence, laddie! That’s what
it means. Affluence beyond the dreams of a Monte Cristo.
Owing to this Jones fellow the place is crowded, and every
sportsman for miles around will be there to-morrow at
five bob a head, cheaper seats two-and-six, and standing-room
one shilling. Add lemonade and fried fish privileges,
and you have a proposition almost without parallel in the
annals of commerce. I couldn’t be more on velvet if they
gave me a sack and a shovel and let me loose in the Mint.”</p>
<p>I congratulated him in suitable terms.</p>
<p>“How is the Battler?” I asked.</p>
<p>“Trained to an ounce. Come and see him to-morrow
morning.”</p>
<p>“I can’t come in the morning. I’ve got to go to this
Jones meeting.”</p>
<p>“Oh, yes. Well, make it early in the afternoon, then.
Don’t come later than three, because he will be resting.
We’re at Number Seven, Caerleon Street. Ask for the Cap
and Feathers public-house, and turn sharp to the left.”</p>
<p>I was in a curiously uplifted mood on the following afternoon
as I set out to pay my respects to Mr. Billson. This
was the first time I had had occasion to attend one of these
revival meetings, and the effect it had had on me was to
make me feel as if I had been imbibing large quantities of
champagne to the accompaniment of a very loud orchestra.
Even before the revivalist rose to speak, the proceedings
had had an effervescent quality singularly unsettling to the
sober mind, for the vast gathering had begun to sing hymns
directly they took their seats; and while the opinion I
had formed of the inhabitants of Llunindnno was not high,
there was no denying their vocal powers. There is something
about a Welsh voice when raised in song that no
other voice seems to possess—a creepy, heart-searching
quality that gets right into a man’s inner consciousness and
stirs it up with a pole. And on top of this had come Evan
Jones’s address.</p>
<p>It did not take me long to understand why this man had
gone through the country-side like a flame. He had
magnetism, intense earnestness, and the voice of a prophet
crying in the wilderness. His fiery eyes seemed to single
out each individual in the hall, and every time he paused
sighings and wailings went up like the smoke of a furnace.
And then, after speaking for what I discovered with amazement
on consulting my watch was considerably over an
hour, he stopped. And I blinked like an aroused somnambulist,
shook myself to make sure I was still there, and
came away. And now, as I walked in search of the Cap
and Feathers, I was, as I say, oddly exhilarated: and I
was strolling along in a sort of trance when a sudden uproar
jerked me from my thoughts. I looked about me, and saw
the sign of the Cap and Feathers suspended over a building
across the street.</p>
<p>It was a dubious-looking hostelry in a dubious neighbourhood:
and the sounds proceeding from its interior
were not reassuring to a peace-loving pedestrian. There
was a good deal of shouting going on and much smashing
of glass; and, as I stood there, the door flew open and a
familiar figure emerged rather hastily. A moment later
there appeared in the doorway a woman.</p>
<p>She was a small woman, but she carried the largest and
most intimidating mop I had ever seen. It dripped dirty
water as she brandished it; and the man, glancing apprehensively
over his shoulder, proceeded rapidly on his way.</p>
<p>“Hallo, Mr. Billson!” I said, as he shot by me.</p>
<p>It was not, perhaps, the best-chosen moment for endeavouring
to engage him in light conversation. He showed no
disposition whatever to linger. He vanished round the
corner, and the woman, with a few winged words, gave
her mop a victorious flourish and re-entered the public-house.
I walked on, and a little later a huge figure stepped
cautiously out of an alleyway and fell into step at my side.</p>
<p>“Didn’t recognise you, mister,” said Mr. Billson, apologetically.</p>
<p>“You seemed in rather a hurry,” I agreed.</p>
<p>“’R!” said Mr. Billson, and a thoughtful silence descended
upon him for a space.</p>
<p>“Who,” I asked, tactlessly, perhaps, “was your lady
friend?”</p>
<p>Mr. Billson looked a trifle sheepish. Unnecessarily, in
my opinion. Even heroes may legitimately quail before a
mop wielded by an angry woman.</p>
<p>“She come out of a back room,” he said, with embarrassment.
“Started makin’ a fuss when she saw what I’d
done. So I come away. You can’t dot a woman,” argued
Mr. Billson, chivalrously.</p>
<p>“Certainly not,” I agreed. “But what was the
trouble?”</p>
<p>“I been doin’ good,” said Mr. Billson, virtuously.</p>
<p>“Doing good?”</p>
<p>“Spillin’ their beers.”</p>
<p>“Whose beers?”</p>
<p>“All of their beers. I went in and there was a lot of
sinful fellers drinkin’ beers. So I spilled ’em. All of ’em.
Walked round and spilled all of them beers, one after the
other. Not ’arf surprised them pore sinners wasn’t,” said
Mr. Billson, with what sounded to me not unlike a worldly
chuckle.</p>
<p>“I can readily imagine it.”</p>
<p>“Huh?”</p>
<p>“I say I bet they were.”</p>
<p>“’R!” said Mr. Billson. He frowned. “Beer,” he
proceeded, with cold austerity, “ain’t right. Sinful, that’s
what beer is. It stingeth like a serpent and biteth like a
ruddy adder.”</p>
<p>My mouth watered a little. Beer like that was what I
had been scouring the country for for years. I thought it
imprudent, however, to say so. For some reason which I
could not fathom, my companion, once as fond of his half-pint
as the next man, seemed to have conceived a puritanical
hostility to the beverage. I decided to change the
subject.</p>
<p>“I’m looking forward to seeing you fight to-night,” I
said.</p>
<p>He eyed me woodenly.</p>
<p>“Me?”</p>
<p>“Yes. At the Oddfellows’ Hall, you know.”</p>
<p>He shook his head.</p>
<p>“I ain’t fighting at no Oddfellows’ Hall,” he replied.
“Not at no Oddfellows’ Hall nor nowhere else I’m not
fighting, not to-night nor no night.” He pondered stolidly,
and then, as if coming to the conclusion that his last
sentence could be improved by the addition of a negative,
added “No!”</p>
<p>And having said this, he suddenly stopped and stiffened
like a pointing dog; and, looking up to see what interesting
object by the wayside had attracted his notice, I perceived
that we were standing beneath another public-house sign,
that of the Blue Boar. Its windows were hospitably open,
and through them came a musical clinking of glasses.
Mr. Billson licked his lips with a quiet relish.</p>
<p>“’Scuse me, mister,” he said, and left me abruptly.</p>
<p>My one thought now was to reach Ukridge as quickly as
possible, in order to acquaint him with these sinister
developments. For I was startled. More, I was alarmed
and uneasy. In one of the star performers at a special
ten-round contest, scheduled to take place that evening,
Mr. Billson’s attitude seemed to me peculiar, not to say
disquieting. So, even though a sudden crash and uproar
from the interior of the Blue Boar called invitingly to me
to linger, I hurried on, and neither stopped, looked, nor
listened until I stood on the steps of Number Seven Caerleon
Street. And eventually, after my prolonged ringing and
knocking had finally induced a female of advanced years
to come up and open the door, I found Ukridge lying on a
horse-hair sofa in the far corner of the sitting-room.</p>
<p>I unloaded my grave news. It was wasting time to try
to break it gently.</p>
<p>“I’ve just seen Billson,” I said, “and he seems to be
in rather a strange mood. In fact, I’m sorry to say, old
man, he rather gave me the impression——”</p>
<p>“That he wasn’t going to fight to-night?” said Ukridge,
with a strange calm. “Quite correct. He isn’t. He’s
just been in here to tell me so. What I like about the man
is his consideration for all concerned. <i>He </i> doesn’t want to
upset anybody’s arrangements.”</p>
<p>“But what’s the trouble? Is he kicking about only
getting twenty pounds?”</p>
<p>“No. He thinks fighting’s sinful!”</p>
<p>“What?”</p>
<p>“Nothing more nor less, Corky, my boy. Like chumps,
we took our eyes off him for half a second this morning, and
he sneaked off to that revival meeting. Went out shortly
after a light and wholesome breakfast for what he called
a bit of a mooch round, and came in half an hour ago a
changed man. Full of loving-kindness, curse him. Nasty
shifty gleam in his eye. Told us he thought fighting
sinful and it was all off, and then buzzed out to spread the
Word.”</p>
<p>I was shaken to the core. Wilberforce Billson, the
peerless but temperamental Battler, had never been an
ideal pugilist to manage, but hitherto he had drawn the
line at anything like this. Other little problems which he
might have brought up for his manager to solve might have
been overcome by patience and tact; but not this one.
The psychology of Mr. Billson was as an open book to me.
He possessed one of those single-track minds, capable of
accommodating but one idea at a time, and he had the
tenacity of the simple soul. Argument would leave him
unshaken. On that bone-like head Reason would beat in
vain. And, these things being so, I was at a loss to account
for Ukridge’s extraordinary calm. His fortitude in the
hour of ruin amazed me.</p>
<p>His next remark, however, offered an explanation.</p>
<p>“We’re putting on a substitute,” he said.</p>
<p>I was relieved.</p>
<p>“Oh, you’ve got a substitute? That’s a bit of luck.
Where did you find him?”</p>
<p>“As a matter of fact, laddie, I’ve decided to go on
myself.”</p>
<p>“What! You!”</p>
<p>“Only way out, my boy. No other solution.”</p>
<p>I stared at the man. Years of the closest acquaintance
with S. F. Ukridge had rendered me almost surprise-proof
at anything he might do, but this was too much.</p>
<p>“Do you mean to tell me that you seriously intend to
go out there to-night and appear in the ring?” I cried.</p>
<p>“Perfectly straightforward business-like proposition,
old man,” said Ukridge, stoutly. “I’m in excellent shape.
I sparred with Billson every day while he was training.”</p>
<p>“Yes, but——”</p>
<p>“The fact is, laddie, you don’t realise my potentialities.
Recently, it’s true, I’ve allowed myself to become slack and
what you might call enervated, but, damme, when I was on
that trip in that tramp-steamer, scarcely a week used to go
by without my having a good earnest scrap with somebody.
Nothing barred,” said Ukridge, musing lovingly on the care-free
past, “except biting and bottles.”</p>
<p>“Yes, but, hang it—a professional pugilist!”</p>
<p>“Well, to be absolutely accurate, laddie,” said Ukridge,
suddenly dropping the heroic manner and becoming confidential,
“the thing’s going to be fixed. Izzy Previn has
seen the bloke Thomas’s manager, and has arranged a
gentleman’s agreement. The manager, a Class A blood-sucker,
insists on us giving his man another twenty pounds
after the fight, but that can’t be helped. In return, the
Thomas bloke consents to play light for three rounds, at
the end of which period, laddie, he will tap me on the side
of the head and I shall go down and out, a popular loser.
What’s more, I’m allowed to hit him hard—once—just so
long as it isn’t on the nose. So you see, a little tact, a little
diplomacy, and the whole thing fixed up as satisfactorily as
anyone could wish.”</p>
<p>“But suppose the audience demands its money back
when they find they’re going to see a substitute?”</p>
<p>“My dear old horse,” protested Ukridge, “surely you
don’t imagine that a man with a business head like mine
overlooked that? Naturally, I’m going to fight as Battling
Billson. Nobody knows him in this town. I’m a good big
chap, just as much a heavy-weight as he is. No, laddie,
pick how you will you can’t pick a flaw in this.”</p>
<p>“Why mayn’t you hit him on the nose?”</p>
<p>“I don’t know. People have these strange whims. And
now, Corky, my boy, I think you had better leave me. I
ought to relax.”</p>
<p>The Oddfellows’ Hall was certainly filling up nicely when
I arrived that night. Indeed, it seemed as though Llunindnno’s
devotees of sport would cram it to the roof. I
took my place in the fine before the pay-window, and,
having completed the business end of the transaction,
went in and enquired my way to the dressing-rooms. And
presently, after wandering through divers passages, I came
upon Ukridge, clad for the ring and swathed in his familiar
yellow mackintosh.</p>
<p>“You’re going to have a wonderful house,” I said.
“The populace is rolling up in shoals.”</p>
<p>He received the information with a strange lack of
enthusiasm. I looked at him in concern, and was disquieted
by his forlorn appearance. That face, which had
beamed so triumphantly at our last meeting, was pale and
set. Those eyes, which normally shone with the flame of an
unquenchable optimism, seemed dull and careworn. And
even as I looked at him he seemed to rouse himself from a
stupor and, reaching out for his shirt, which hung on a
near-by peg, proceeded to pull it over his head.</p>
<p>“What’s the matter?” I asked.</p>
<p>His head popped out of the shirt, and he eyed me wanly.</p>
<p>“I’m off,” he announced, briefly.</p>
<p>“Off? How do you mean, off?” I tried to soothe
what I took to be an eleventh-hour attack of stage-fright.
“You’ll be all right.”</p>
<p>Ukridge laughed hollowly.</p>
<p>“Once the gong goes, you’ll forget the crowd.”</p>
<p>“It isn’t the crowd,” said Ukridge, in a pale voice,
climbing into his trousers. “Corky, old man,” he went
on, earnestly, “if ever you feel your angry passions rising
to the point where you want to swat a stranger in a public
place, restrain yourself. There’s nothing in it. This bloke
Thomas was in here a moment ago with his manager to settle
the final details. He’s the fellow I had the trouble with at
the theatre last night!”</p>
<p>“The man you pulled out of the seat by his ears?” I
gasped.</p>
<p>Ukridge nodded.</p>
<p>“Recognised me at once, confound him, and it was all
his manager, a thoroughly decent cove whom I liked, could
do to prevent him getting at me there and then.”</p>
<p>“Good Lord!” I said, aghast at this grim development,
yet thinking how thoroughly characteristic it was of
Ukridge, when he had a whole townful of people to quarrel
with, to pick the one professional pugilist.</p>
<p>At this moment, when Ukridge was lacing his left shoe,
the door opened and a man came in.</p>
<p>The new-comer was stout, dark, and beady-eyed, and
from his manner of easy comradeship and the fact that
when he spoke he supplemented words with the language
of the waving palm, I deduced that this must be Mr. Izzy
Previn, recently trading as Isaac O’Brien. He was
cheeriness itself.</p>
<p>“Veil,” he said, with ill-timed exuberance, “how’th
the boy?”</p>
<p>The boy cast a sour look at him.</p>
<p>“The house,” proceeded Mr. Previn, with an almost
lyrical enthusiasm, “is abtholutely full. Crammed,
jammed, and packed. They’re hanging from the roof by
their eyelids. It’th goin’ to be a knock-out.”</p>
<p>The expression, considering the circumstances, could
hardly have been less happily chosen. Ukridge winced
painfully, then spoke in no uncertain voice.</p>
<p>“I’m not going to fight!”</p>
<p>Mr. Previn’s exuberance fell from him like a garment.
His cigar dropped from his mouth, and his beady eyes glittered
with sudden consternation.</p>
<p>“What do you mean?”</p>
<p>“Rather an unfortunate thing has happened,” I explained.
“It seems that this man Thomas is a fellow
Ukridge had trouble with at the theatre last night.”</p>
<p>“What do you mean, Ukridge?” broke in Mr. Previn.
“This is Battling Billson.”</p>
<p>“I’ve told Corky all about it,” said Ukridge over his
shoulder as he laced his right shoe. “Old pal of mine.”</p>
<p>“Oh!” said Mr. Previn, relieved. “Of course, if Mr.
Corky is a friend of yours and quite understands that all
this is quite private among ourselves and don’t want talking
about outside, all right. But what were you thayin’? I
can’t make head or tail of it. How do you mean, you’re
not goin’ to fight? Of course you’re goin’ to fight.”</p>
<p>“Thomas was in here just now,” I said. “Ukridge
and he had a row at the theatre last night, and naturally
Ukridge is afraid he will go back on the agreement.”</p>
<p>“Nonthense,” said Mr. Previn, and his manner was that
of one soothing a refractory child. “<i>He </i> won’t go back on
the agreement. He promised he’d play light and he will
play light. Gave me his word as a gentleman.”</p>
<p>“He isn’t a gentleman,” Ukridge pointed out, moodily.</p>
<p>“But lithen!”</p>
<p>“I’m going to get out of here as quick as I dashed well
can!”</p>
<p>“Conthider!” pleaded Mr. Previn, clawing great chunks
out of the air.</p>
<p>Ukridge began to button his collar.</p>
<p>“Reflect!” moaned Mr. Previn. “There’s that lovely
audience all sitting out there, jammed like thardines, waiting
for the thing to start. Do you expect me to go and
tell ’em there ain’t goin’ to be no fight? I’m thurprised
at you,” said Mr. Previn, trying an appeal to his pride.
“Where’s your manly spirit? A big, husky feller like you,
that’s done all sorts of scrappin’ in your time——”</p>
<p>“Not,” Ukridge pointed out coldly, “with any damned
professional pugilists who’ve got a grievance against me.”</p>
<p>“<i>He </i> won’t hurt you.”</p>
<p>“He won’t get the chance.”</p>
<p>“You’ll be as safe and cosy in that ring with him as if
you was playing ball with your little thister.”</p>
<p>Ukridge said he hadn’t got a little sister.</p>
<p>“But think!” implored Mr. Previn, flapping like a seal.
“Think of the money! Do you realise we’ll have to return
it all, every penny of it?”</p>
<p>A spasm of pain passed over Ukridge’s face, but he continued
buttoning his collar.</p>
<p>“And not only that,” said Mr. Previn, “but, if you ask
me, they’ll be so mad when they hear there ain’t goin’ to
be no fight, they’ll lynch me.”</p>
<p>Ukridge seemed to regard this possibility with calm.</p>
<p>“And you, too,” added Mr. Previn.</p>
<p>Ukridge started. It was a plausible theory, and one that
had not occurred to him before. He paused irresolutely.
And at this moment a man came hurrying in.</p>
<p>“What’s the matter?” he demanded, fussily. “Thomas
has been in the ring for five minutes. Isn’t your man
ready?”</p>
<p>“In one half tick,” said Mr. Previn. He turned meaningly
to Ukridge. “That’s right, ain’t it? You’ll be
ready in half a tick?”</p>
<p>Ukridge nodded wanly. In silence he shed shirt,
trousers, shoes, and collar, parting from them as if they
were old friends whom he never expected to see again.
One wistful glance he cast at his mackintosh, lying forlornly
across a chair; and then, with more than a suggestion
of a funeral procession, we started down the corridor that
led to the main hall. The hum of many voices came to
us; there was a sudden blaze of light, and we were there.</p>
<p>I must say for the sport-loving citizens of Llunindnno
that they appeared to be fair-minded men. Stranger in
their midst though he was, they gave Ukridge an excellent
reception as he climbed into the ring; and for a moment,
such is the tonic effect of applause on a large scale, his
depression seemed to lift. A faint, gratified smile played
about his drawn mouth, and I think it would have developed
into a bashful grin, had he not at this instant caught sight
of the redoubtable Mr. Thomas towering massively across
the way. I saw him blink, as one who, thinking absently
of this and that, walks suddenly into a lamp-post; and his
look of unhappiness returned.</p>
<p>My heart bled for him. If the offer of my little savings
in the bank could have transported him there and then
to the safety of his London lodgings, I would have made it
unreservedly. Mr. Previn had disappeared, leaving me
standing at the ring-side, and as nobody seemed to object
I remained there, thus getting an excellent view of the mass
of bone and sinew that made up Lloyd Thomas. And
there was certainly plenty of him to see.</p>
<p>Mr. Thomas was, I should imagine, one of those men who
do not look their most formidable in mufti—for otherwise
I could not conceive how even the fact that he had stolen
his seat could have led Ukridge to lay the hand of violence
upon him. In the exiguous costume of the ring he looked a
person from whom the sensible man would suffer almost
any affront with meekness. He was about six feet in
height, and wherever a man could bulge with muscle he
bulged. For a moment my anxiety for Ukridge was tinged
with a wistful regret that I should never see this sinewy
citizen in action with Mr. Billson. It would, I mused,
have been a battle worth coming even to Llunindnno to
see.</p>
<p>The referee, meanwhile, had been introducing the principals
in the curt, impressive fashion of referees. He now
retired, and with a strange foreboding note a gong sounded
on the farther side of the ring. The seconds scuttled under
the ropes. The man Thomas, struggling—it seemed to
me—with powerful emotions, came ponderously out of his
corner.</p>
<p>In these reminiscences of a vivid and varied career, it is
as a profound thinker that I have for the most part had
occasion to portray Stanley Featherstonehaugh Ukridge.
I was now to be reminded that he also had it in him to be a
doer. Even as Mr. Thomas shuffled towards him, his left
fist shot out and thudded against the other’s ribs. In
short, in a delicate and difficult situation, Ukridge was
comporting himself with an adequacy that surprised me.
However great might have been his reluctance to embark
on this contest, once in he was doing well.</p>
<p>And then, half-way through the first round, the truth
dawned upon me. Injured though Mr. Thomas had been,
the gentleman’s agreement still held. The word of a
Thomas was as good as his bond. Poignant though his
dislike of Ukridge might be, nevertheless, having pledged
himself to mildness and self-restraint for the first three
rounds, he intended to abide by the contract. Probably,
in the interval between his visit to Ukridge’s dressing-room
and his appearance in the ring, his manager had been talking
earnestly to him. At any rate, whether it was managerial
authority or his own sheer nobility of character that
influenced him, the fact remains that he treated Ukridge
with a quite remarkable forbearance, and the latter reached
his corner at the end of round one practically intact.</p>
<p>And it was this that undid him. No sooner had the
gong sounded for round two than out he pranced from his
corner, thoroughly above himself. He bounded at Mr.
Thomas like a Dervish.</p>
<p>I could read his thoughts as if he had spoken them.
Nothing could be clearer than that he had altogether failed
to grasp the true position of affairs. Instead of recognising
his adversary’s forbearance for what it was and
being decently grateful for it, he was filled with a sinful
pride. Here, he told himself, was a man who had a solid
grievance against him—and, dash it, the fellow couldn’t
hurt him a bit. What the whole thing boiled down to, he
felt, was that he, Ukridge, was better than he had suspected,
a man to be reckoned with, and one who could show a
distinguished gathering of patrons of sport something worth
looking at. The consequence was that, where any sensible
person would have grasped the situation at once and
endeavoured to show his appreciation by toying with Mr.
Thomas in gingerly fashion, whispering soothing compliments
into his ear during the clinches, and generally
trying to lay the foundations of a beautiful friendship
against the moment when the gentleman’s agreement
should lapse, Ukridge committed the one unforgivable act.
There was a brief moment of fiddling and feinting in the
centre of the ring, then a sharp smacking sound, a startled
yelp, and Mr. Thomas, with gradually reddening eye,
leaning against the ropes and muttering to himself in
Welsh.</p>
<p>Ukridge had hit him on the nose.</p>
<p>Once more I must pay a tribute to the fair-mindedness of
the sportsmen of Llunindnno. The stricken man was one
of them—possibly Llunindnno’s favourite son—yet nothing
could have exceeded the heartiness with which they greeted
the visitor’s achievement. A shout went up as if Ukridge
had done each individual present a personal favour. It
continued as he advanced buoyantly upon his antagonist,
and—to show how entirely Llunindnno audiences render
themselves impartial and free from any personal bias—it
became redoubled as Mr. Thomas, swinging a fist like a
ham, knocked Ukridge flat on his back. Whatever happened,
so long as it was sufficiently violent, seemed to be
all right with that broad-minded audience.</p>
<p>Ukridge heaved himself laboriously to one knee. His
sensibilities had been ruffled by this unexpected blow,
about fifteen times as hard as the others he had received
since the beginning of the affray, but he was a man of mettle
and determination. However humbly he might quail
before a threatening landlady, or however nimbly he might
glide down a side-street at the sight of an approaching
creditor, there was nothing wrong with his fighting heart
when it came to a straight issue between man and man,
untinged by the financial element. He struggled painfully
to his feet, while Mr. Thomas, now definitely abandoning
the gentleman’s agreement, hovered about him with ready
fists, only restrained by the fact that one of Ukridge’s
gloves still touched the floor.</p>
<p>It was at this tensest of moments that a voice spoke in
my ear. “’Alf a mo’, mister!”</p>
<p>A hand pushed me gently aside. Something large
obscured the lights. And Wilberforce Billson, squeezing
under the ropes, clambered into the ring.</p>
<p>For the purposes of the historian it was a good thing
that for the first few moments after this astounding occurrence
a dazed silence held the audience in its grip. Otherwise,
it might have been difficult to probe motives and
explain underlying causes. I think the spectators were
either too surprised to shout, or else they entertained for a
few brief seconds the idea that Mr. Billson was the forerunner
of a posse of plain-clothes police about to raid the
place. At any rate, for a space they were silent, and he
was enabled to say his say.</p>
<p>“Fightin’,” bellowed Mr. Billson, “ain’t right!”</p>
<p>There was an uneasy rustle in the audience. The voice
of the referee came thinly, saying, “Here! Hi!”</p>
<p>“Sinful,” explained Mr. Billson, in a voice like a foghorn.</p>
<p>His oration was interrupted by Mr. Thomas, who was
endeavouring to get round him and attack Ukridge. The
Battler pushed him gently back.</p>
<p>“Gents,” he roared, “I, too, have been a man of voylence!
I ’ave struck men in anger. R, yes! But I ’ave
seen the light. Oh, my brothers——”</p>
<p>The rest of his remarks were lost. With a startling
suddenness the frozen silence melted. In every part of
the hall indignant seatholders were rising to state their
views.</p>
<p>But it is doubtful whether, even if he had been granted
a continuance of their attention, Mr. Billson would have
spoken to much greater length; for at this moment Lloyd
Thomas, who had been gnawing at the strings of his gloves
with the air of a man who is able to stand just so much
and whose limit has been exceeded, now suddenly shed
these obstacles to the freer expression of self, and advancing
bare-handed, smote Mr. Billson violently on the jaw.</p>
<p>Mr. Billson turned. He was pained, one could see that,
but more spiritually than physically. For a moment he
seemed uncertain how to proceed. Then he turned the
other cheek.</p>
<p>The fermenting Mr. Thomas smote that, too.</p>
<p>There was no vacillation or uncertainty now about
Wilberforce Billson. He plainly considered that he had
done all that could reasonably be expected of any pacifist.
A man has only two cheeks. He flung up a mast-like arm,
to block a third blow, countered with an accuracy and
spirit which sent his aggressor reeling to the ropes; and
then, swiftly removing his coat, went into action with the
unregenerate zeal that had made him the petted hero of a
hundred water-fronts. And I, tenderly scooping Ukridge
up as he dropped from the ring, hurried him away along
the corridor to his dressing-room. I would have given
much to remain and witness a mix-up which, if the police
did not interfere, promised to be the battle of the ages,
but the claims of friendship are paramount.</p>
<p>Ten minutes later, however, when Ukridge, washed,
clothed, and restored as near to the normal as a man may
be who has received the full weight of a Lloyd Thomas on
a vital spot, was reaching for his mackintosh, there filtered
through the intervening doors and passageways a sudden
roar so compelling that my sporting spirit declined to
ignore it.</p>
<p>“Back in a minute, old man,” I said.</p>
<p>And, urged by that ever-swelling roar, I cantered back
to the hall.</p>
<p>In the interval during which I had been ministering to
my stricken friend a certain decorum seemed to have been
restored to the proceedings. The conflict had lost its first
riotous abandon. Upholders of the decencies of debate
had induced Mr. Thomas to resume his gloves, and a pair
had also been thrust upon the Battler. Moreover, it was
apparent that the etiquette of the tourney now governed
the conflict, for rounds had been introduced, and one had
just finished as I came in view of the ring. Mr. Billson
was leaning back in a chair in one corner undergoing treatment
by his seconds, and in the opposite corner loomed Mr.
Thomas; and one sight of the two men was enough to tell
me what had caused that sudden tremendous outburst of
enthusiasm among the patriots of Llunindnno. In the
last stages of the round which had just concluded the native
son must have forged ahead in no uncertain manner.
Perhaps some chance blow had found its way through the
Battler’s guard, laying him open and defenceless to the
final attack. For his attitude, as he sagged in his corner,
was that of one whose moments are numbered. His eyes
were closed, his mouth hung open, and exhaustion was writ
large upon him. Mr. Thomas, on the contrary, leaned
forward with hands on knees, wearing an impatient look,
as if this formality of a rest between rounds irked his
imperious spirit.</p>
<p>The gong sounded and he sprang from his seat.</p>
<p>“Laddie!” breathed an anguished voice, and a hand
clutched my arm.</p>
<p>I was dimly aware of Ukridge standing beside me. I
shook him off. This was no moment for conversation.
My whole attention was concentrated on what was happening
in the ring.</p>
<p>“I say, laddie!”</p>
<p>Matters in there had reached that tense stage when
audiences lose their self-control—when strong men stand
on seats and weak men cry “Siddown!” The air was
full of that electrical thrill that precedes the knock-out.</p>
<p>And the next moment it came. But it was not Lloyd
Thomas who delivered it. From some mysterious reservoir
of vitality Wilberforce Billson, the pride of Bermondsey,
who an instant before had been reeling under his antagonist’s
blows like a stricken hulk before a hurricane, produced
that one last punch that wins battles. Up it came, whizzing
straight to its mark, a stupendous, miraculous upper-cut
which caught Mr. Thomas on the angle of the jaw just
as he lurched forward to complete his task. It was the
last word. Anything milder Llunindnno’s favourite son
might have borne with fortitude, for his was a teak-like
frame impervious to most things short of dynamite; but
this was final. It left no avenue for argument or evasion.
Lloyd Thomas spun round once in a complete circle, dropped
his hands, and sank slowly to the ground.</p>
<p>There was one wild shout from the audience, and then
a solemn hush fell. And in this hush Ukridge’s voice
spoke once more in my ear.</p>
<p>“I say, laddie, that blighter Previn has bolted with
every penny of the receipts!”</p>
<p>The little sitting-room of Number Seven Caerleon Street
was very quiet and gave the impression of being dark.
This was because there is so much of Ukridge and he takes
Fate’s blows so hardly that when anything goes wrong his
gloom seems to fill a room like a fog. For some minutes
after our return from the Oddfellows’ Hall a gruesome
silence had prevailed. Ukridge had exhausted his vocabulary
on the subject of Mr. Previn; and as for me, the
disaster seemed so tremendous as to render words of sympathy
a mere mockery.</p>
<p>“And there’s another thing I’ve just remembered,” said
Ukridge, hollowly, stirring on his sofa.</p>
<p>“What’s that?” I enquired, in a bedside voice.</p>
<p>“The bloke Thomas. He was to have got another
twenty pounds.”</p>
<p>“He’ll hardly claim it, surely?”</p>
<p>“He’ll claim it all right,” said Ukridge, moodily.
“Except, by Jove,” he went on, a sudden note of optimism
in his voice, “that he doesn’t know where I am. I was
forgetting that. Lucky we legged it away from the hall
before he could grab me.”</p>
<p>“You don’t think that Previn, when he was making
the arrangements with Thomas’s manager, may have mentioned
where you were staying?”</p>
<p>“Not likely. Why should he? What reason would he
have?”</p>
<p>“Gentleman to see you, sir,” crooned the aged female
at the door.</p>
<p>The gentleman walked in. It was the man who had
come to the dressing-room to announce that Thomas was
in the ring; and though on that occasion we had not been
formally introduced I did not need Ukridge’s faint groan
to tell me who he was.</p>
<p>“Mr. Previn?” he said. He was a brisk man, direct
in manner and speech.</p>
<p>“He’s not here,” said Ukridge.</p>
<p>“You’ll do. You’re his partner. I’ve come for that
twenty pounds.”</p>
<p>There was a painful silence.</p>
<p>“It’s gone,” said Ukridge.</p>
<p>“What’s gone?”</p>
<p>“The money, dash it. And Previn, too. He’s bolted.”
A hard look came into the other’s eyes. Dim as the light
was, it was strong enough to show his expression, and that
expression was not an agreeable one.</p>
<p>“That won’t do,” he said, in a metallic voice.</p>
<p>“Now, my dear old horse——”</p>
<p>“It’s no good trying anything like that on me. I want
my money, or I’m going to call a policeman. Now, then!”</p>
<p>“But, laddie, be reasonable.”</p>
<p>“Made a mistake in not getting it in advance. But
now’ll do. Out with it!”</p>
<p>“But I keep telling you Previn’s bolted!”</p>
<p>“He’s certainly bolted,” I put in, trying to be helpful.</p>
<p>“That’s right, mister,” said a voice at the door. “I
met ’im sneakin’ away.”</p>
<p>It was Wilberforce Billson. He stood in the doorway
diffidently, as one not sure of his welcome. His whole
bearing was apologetic. He had a nasty bruise on his left
cheek and one of his eyes was closed, but he bore no other
signs of his recent conflict.</p>
<p>Ukridge was gazing upon him with bulging eyes.</p>
<p>“You <i>met </i> him!” he moaned. “You actually met
him?”</p>
<p>“R,” said Mr. Billson. “When I was cornin’ to the ’all.
I seen ’im puttin’ all that money into a liddle bag, and then
’e ’urried off.”</p>
<p>“Good lord!” I cried. “Didn’t you suspect what he
was up to?”</p>
<p>“R,” agreed Mr. Billson. “I always knew ’e was a
wrong ’un.”</p>
<p>“Then why, you poor woollen-headed fish,” bellowed
Ukridge, exploding, “why on earth didn’t you stop him?”</p>
<p>“I never thought of that,” admitted Mr. Billson, apologetically.</p>
<p>Ukridge laughed a hideous laugh.</p>
<p>“I just pushed ’im in the face,” proceeded Mr. Billson,
“and took the liddle bag away from ’im.”</p>
<p>He placed on the table a small weather-worn suitcase
that jingled musically as he moved it; then, with the air
of one who dismisses some triviality from his mind, moved
to the door.</p>
<p>“’Scuse me, gents,” said Battling Billson, deprecatingly.
“Can’t stop. I’ve got to go and spread the light.”</p>
<h2 id="CH10">  CHAPTER X </h2>
<div class="chtitle">  UKRIDGE ROUNDS A NASTY CORNER </div>
<p>The late Sir Rupert Lakenheath, K.C.M.G., C.B.,
M.V.O., was one of those men at whom their
countries point with pride. Until his retirement
on a pension in the year 1906, he had
been Governor of various insanitary outposts of the British
Empire situated around the equator, and as such had won
respect and esteem from all. A kindly editor of my
acquaintance secured for me the job of assisting the widow
of this great administrator to prepare his memoirs for
publication; and on a certain summer afternoon I had just
finished arraying myself suitably for my first call on her
at her residence in Thurloe Square, South Kensington, when
there was a knock at the door, and Bowles, my landlord,
entered, bearing gifts.</p>
<p>These consisted of a bottle with a staring label and a
large cardboard hat-box. I gazed at them blankly, for
they held no message for me.</p>
<p>Bowles, in his ambassadorial manner, condescended to
explain.</p>
<p>“Mr. Ukridge,” he said, with the ring of paternal affection
in his voice which always crept into it when speaking
of that menace to civilisation, “called a moment ago, sir,
and desired me to hand you these.”</p>
<p>Having now approached the table on which he had
placed the objects, I was enabled to solve the mystery of
the bottle. It was one of those, fat, bulging bottles, and
it bore across its diaphragm in red letters the single word
“PEPPO.” Beneath this, in black letters, ran the legend,
“It Bucks You Up.” I had not seen Ukridge for more
than two weeks, but at our last meeting, I remembered, he
had spoken of some foul patent medicine of which he had
somehow secured the agency. This, apparently, was it.</p>
<p>“But what’s in the hat-box?” I asked.</p>
<p>“I could not say, sir,” replied Bowles.</p>
<p>At this point the hat-box, which had hitherto not spoken,
uttered a crisp, sailorly oath, and followed it up by singing
the opening bars of “Annie Laurie.” It then relapsed
into its former moody silence.</p>
<p>A few doses of Peppo would, no doubt, have enabled me
to endure this remarkable happening with fortitude and
phlegm. Not having taken that specific, the thing had a
devastating effect upon my nervous centres. I bounded
back and upset a chair, while Bowles, his dignity laid
aside, leaped silently towards the ceiling. It was the first
time I had ever seen him lay off the mask, and even in
that trying moment I could not help being gratified by
the spectacle. It gave me one of those thrills that come
once in a lifetime.</p>
<p>“For Gord’s sake!” ejaculated Bowles.</p>
<p>“Have a nut,” observed the hat-box, hospitably.
“Have a nut.”</p>
<p>Bowles’s panic subsided.</p>
<p>“It’s a bird, sir. A parrot!”</p>
<p>“What the deuce does Ukridge mean,” I cried, becoming
the outraged householder, “by cluttering up my rooms
with his beastly parrots? I’d like that man to know——”</p>
<p>The mention of Ukridge’s name seemed to act on Bowles
like a soothing draught. He recovered his poise.</p>
<p>“I have no doubt, sir,” he said, a touch of coldness in
his voice that rebuked my outburst, “that Mr. Ukridge
has good reasons for depositing the bird in our custody.
I fancy he must wish you to take charge of it for him.”</p>
<p>“He may wish it——” I was beginning, when my eye
fell on the clock. If I did not want to alienate my employer
by keeping her waiting, I must be on my way immediately.</p>
<p>“Put that hat-box in the other room, Bowles,” I said.
“And I suppose you had better give the bird something
to eat.”</p>
<p>“Very good, sir. You may leave the matter in my
hands with complete confidence.”</p>
<p>The drawing-room into which I was shown on arriving
at Thurloe Square was filled with many mementoes of the
late Sir Rupert’s gubernatorial career. In addition the
room contained a small and bewilderingly pretty girl in a
blue dress, who smiled upon me pleasantly.</p>
<p>“My aunt will be down in a moment,” she said, and for
a few moments we exchanged commonplaces. Then the
door opened and Lady Lakenheath appeared.</p>
<p>The widow of the Administrator was tall, angular, and
thin, with a sun-tanned face of a cast so determined as to
make it seem a tenable theory that in the years previous
to 1906 she had done at least her share of the administrating.
Her whole appearance was that of a woman designed by
Nature to instil law and order into the bosoms of boisterous
cannibal kings. She surveyed me with an appraising
glance, and then, as if reconciled to the fact that, poor
specimen though I might be, I was probably as good as
anything else that could be got for the money, received
me into the fold by pressing the bell and ordering tea.</p>
<p>Tea had arrived, and I was trying to combine bright
dialogue with the difficult feat of balancing my cup on the
smallest saucer I had ever seen, when my hostess, happening
to glance out of window into the street below, uttered
something midway between a sigh and a click of the tongue.</p>
<p>“Oh, dear! That extraordinary man again!”</p>
<p>The girl in the blue dress, who had declined tea and was
sewing in a distant corner, bent a little closer over her work.</p>
<p>“Millie!” said the administratress, plaintively, as if
desiring sympathy in her trouble.</p>
<p>“Yes, Aunt Elizabeth?”</p>
<p>“That man is calling again!”</p>
<p>There was a short but perceptible pause. A delicate pink
appeared in the girl’s cheeks.</p>
<p>“Yes, Aunt Elizabeth?” she said.</p>
<p>“Mr. Ukridge,” announced the maid at the door.</p>
<p>It seemed to me that if this sort of thing was to continue,
if existence was to become a mere series of shocks and
surprises, Peppo would have to be installed as an essential
factor in my life. I stared speechlessly at Ukridge as he
breezed in with the unmistakable air of sunny confidence
which a man shows on familiar ground. Even if I had not
had Lady Lakenheath’s words as evidence, his manner
would have been enough to tell me that he was a frequent
visitor in her drawing-room; and how he had come to be
on calling terms with a lady so pre-eminently respectable
it was beyond me to imagine. I awoke from my stupor
to find that we were being introduced, and that Ukridge,
for some reason clear, no doubt, to his own tortuous mind
but inexplicable to me, was treating me as a complete
stranger. He nodded courteously but distantly, and I,
falling in with his unspoken wishes, nodded back. Plainly
relieved, he turned to Lady Lakenheath and plunged forthwith
into the talk of intimacy.</p>
<p>“I’ve got good news for you,” he said. “News about
Leonard.”</p>
<p>The alteration in our hostess’s manner at these words
was remarkable. Her somewhat forbidding manner
softened in an instant to quite a tremulous fluttering. Gone
was the hauteur which had caused her but a moment back
to allude to him as “that extraordinary man.” She
pressed tea upon him, and scones.</p>
<p>“Oh, Mr. Ukridge!” she cried.</p>
<p>“I don’t want to rouse false hopes and all that sort of
thing, laddie—I mean, Lady Lakenheath, but, upon my
Sam, I really believe I am on the track. I have been
making the most assiduous enquiries.”</p>
<p>“How very kind of you!”</p>
<p>“No, no,” said Ukridge, modestly.</p>
<p>“I have been so worried,” said Lady Lakenheath, “that
I have scarcely been able to rest.”</p>
<p>“Too bad!”</p>
<p>“Last night I had a return of my wretched malaria.”</p>
<p>At these words, as if he had been given a cue, Ukridge
reached under his chair and produced from his hat, like
some conjurer, a bottle that was own brother to the one
he had left in my rooms. Even from where I sat I could
read those magic words of cheer on its flaunting label.</p>
<p>“Then I’ve got the very stuff for you,” he boomed.
“This is what you want. Glowing reports on all sides.
Two doses, and cripples fling away their crutches and join
the Beauty Chorus.”</p>
<p>“I am scarcely a cripple, Mr. Ukridge,” said Lady
Lakenheath, with a return of her earlier bleakness.</p>
<p>“No, no! Good heavens, no! But you can’t go wrong
by taking Peppo.”</p>
<p>“Peppo?” said Lady Lakenheath, doubtfully.</p>
<p>“It bucks you up.”</p>
<p>“You think it might do me good?” asked the sufferer,
wavering. There was a glitter in her eye that betrayed
the hypochondriac, the woman who will try anything
once.</p>
<p>“Can’t fail.”</p>
<p>“Well, it is most kind and thoughtful of you to have
brought it. What with worrying over Leonard——”</p>
<p>“I know, I know,” murmured Ukridge, in a positively
bedside manner.</p>
<p>“It seems so strange,” said Lady Lakenheath, “that,
after I had advertised in all the papers, someone did not
find him.”</p>
<p>“Perhaps someone did find him!” said Ukridge, darkly.</p>
<p>“You think he must have been stolen?”</p>
<p>“I am convinced of it. A beautiful parrot like Leonard,
able to talk in six languages——”</p>
<p>“And sing,” murmured Lady Lakenheath.</p>
<p>“——<i>and </i> sing,” added Ukridge, “is worth a lot of
money. But don’t you worry, old—er—don’t you worry.
If the investigations which I am conducting now are
successful, you will have Leonard back safe and sound
to-morrow.”</p>
<p>“To-morrow?”</p>
<p>“Absolutely to-morrow. Now tell me all about your
malaria.”</p>
<p>I felt that the time had come for me to leave. It was
not merely that the conversation had taken a purely medical
turn and that I was practically excluded from it; what
was really driving me away was the imperative necessity
of getting out in the open somewhere and thinking. My
brain was whirling. The world seemed to have become
suddenly full of significant and disturbing parrots. I seized
my hat and rose. My hostess was able to take only an
absent-minded interest in my departure. The last thing
I saw as the door closed was Ukridge’s look of big-hearted
tenderness as he leaned forward so as not to miss a syllable
of his companion’s clinical revelations. He was not
actually patting Lady Lakenheath’s hand and telling her
to be a brave little woman, but short of that he appeared
to be doing everything a man could do to show her that,
rugged though his exterior might be, his heart was in the
right place and aching for her troubles.</p>
<p>I walked back to my rooms. I walked slowly and
pensively, bumping into lamp-posts and pedestrians. It was
a relief, when I finally reached Ebury Street, to find
Ukridge smoking on my sofa. I was resolved that before
he left he should explain what this was all about, if I had
to wrench the truth from him.</p>
<p>“Hallo, laddie!” he said. “Upon my Sam, Corky,
old horse, did you ever in your puff hear of anything so
astounding as our meeting like that? Hope you didn’t
mind my pretending not to know you. The fact is my
position in that house——What the dickens were you
doing there, by the way?”</p>
<p>“I’m helping Lady Lakenheath prepare her husband’s
memoirs.”</p>
<p>“Of course, yes. I remember hearing her say she was
going to rope in someone. But what a dashed extraordinary
thing it should be you! However, where was I?
Oh, yes. My position in the house, Corky, is so delicate
that I simply didn’t dare risk entering into any entangling
alliances. What I mean to say is, if we had rushed into
each other’s arms, and you had been established in the old
lady’s eyes as a friend of mine, and then one of these days
you had happened to make a bloomer of some kind—as you
well might, laddie—and got heaved into the street on your
left ear—well, you see where I would be. I should be
involved in your downfall. And I solemnly assure you,
laddie, that my whole existence is staked on keeping in
with that female. I <i>must </i> get her consent!”</p>
<p>“Her what?”</p>
<p>“Her consent. To the marriage.”</p>
<p>“The marriage?”</p>
<p>Ukridge blew a cloud of smoke, and gazed through it
sentimentally at the ceiling.</p>
<p>“Isn’t she a perfect angel?” he breathed, softly.</p>
<p>“Do you mean Lady Lakenheath?” I asked, bewildered.</p>
<p>“Fool! No, Millie.”</p>
<p>“Millie? The girl in blue?”</p>
<p>Ukridge sighed dreamily.</p>
<p>“She was wearing that blue dress when I first met her,
Corky. And a hat with thingummies. It was on the
Underground. I gave her my seat, and, as I hung over her,
suspended by a strap, I fell in love absolutely in a flash.
I give you my honest word, laddie, I fell in love with her
for all eternity between Sloane Square and South Kensington
stations. She got out at South Kensington. So did
I. I followed her to the house, rang the bell, got the maid
to show me in, and, once I was in, put up a yarn about
being misdirected and coming to the wrong address and
all that sort of thing. I think they thought I was looney
or trying to sell life insurance or something, but I didn’t
mind that. A few days later I called, and after that I
hung about, keeping an eye on their movements, met ’em
everywhere they went, and bowed and passed a word and
generally made my presence felt, and—well, to cut a long
story short, old horse, we’re engaged. I happened to find
out that Millie was in the habit of taking the dog for a run
in Kensington Gardens every morning at eleven, and after
that things began to move. It took a bit of doing, of
course, getting up so early, but I was on the spot every day
and we talked and bunged sticks for the dog, and—well, as
I say, we’re engaged. She is the most amazing, wonderful
girl, laddie, that you ever encountered in your life.”</p>
<p>I had listened to this recital dumbly. The thing was
too cataclysmal for my mind. It overwhelmed me.</p>
<p>“But——” I began.</p>
<p>“But,” said Ukridge, “the news has yet to be broken to
the old lady, and I am striving with every nerve in my body,
with every fibre of my brain, old horse, to get in right with
her. That is why I brought her that Peppo. Not much,
you may say, but every little helps. Shows zeal. Nothing
like zeal. But, of course, what I’m really relying on is the
parrot. That’s my ace of trumps.”</p>
<p>I passed a hand over my corrugated forehead.</p>
<p>“The parrot!” I said, feebly. “Explain about the
parrot.” Ukridge eyed me with honest astonishment.</p>
<p>“Do you mean to tell me you haven’t got on to that? A
man of your intelligence I Corky, you amaze me. Why,
I pinched it, of course. Or, rather, Millie and I pinched it
together. Millie—a girl in a million, laddie!—put the bird
in a string-bag one night when her aunt was dining out
and lowered it to me out of the drawing-room window.
And I’ve been keeping it in the background till the moment
was ripe for the spectacular return. Wouldn’t have done
to take it back at once. Bad strategy. Wiser to hold it
in reserve for a few days and show zeal and work up the
interest. Millie and I are building on the old lady’s being
so supremely bucked at having the bird restored to her that
there will be nothing she won’t be willing to do for me.”</p>
<p>“But what do you want to dump the thing in my rooms
for?” I demanded, reminded of my grievance. “I never
got such a shock as when that damned hat-box began to
back-chat at me.”</p>
<p>“I’m sorry, old man, but it had to be. I could never tell
that the old lady might not take it into her head to come
round to my rooms about something. I’d thrown out—mistakenly,
I realise now—an occasional suggestion about
tea there some afternoon. So I had to park the bird with
you. I’ll take it away to-morrow.”</p>
<p>“You’ll take it away to-night!”</p>
<p>“Not to-night, old man,” pleaded Ukridge. “First
thing to-morrow. You won’t find it any trouble. Just
throw it a word or two every now and then and give it a
bit of bread dipped in tea or something, and you won’t
have to worry about it at all. And I’ll be round by noon
at the latest to take it away. May Heaven reward you,
laddie, for the way you have stood by me this day!”</p>
<p>For a man like myself, who finds at least eight hours of
sleep essential if that schoolgirl complexion is to be
preserved, it was unfortunate that Leonard the parrot
should have proved to be a bird of high-strung temperament,
easily upset. The experiences which he had undergone
since leaving home had, I was to discover, jarred his
nervous system. He was reasonably tranquil during the
hours preceding bedtime, and had started his beauty-sleep
before I myself turned in; but at two in the morning
something in the nature of a nightmare must have attacked
him, for I was wrenched from slumber by the sound of a
hoarse soliloquy in what I took to be some native dialect.
This lasted without a break till two-fifteen, when he made
a noise like a steam-riveter for some moments; after which,
apparently soothed, he fell asleep again. I dropped off at
about three, and at three-thirty was awakened by the
strains of a deep-sea chanty. From then on our periods
of sleep never seemed to coincide. It was a wearing night,
and before I went out after breakfast I left imperative
instructions with Bowles for Ukridge, on arrival, to be
informed that, if anything went wrong with his plans for
removing my guest that day, the mortality statistics among
parrots would take an up-curve. Returning to my rooms
in the evening, I was pleased to see that this manifesto
had been taken to heart. The hat-box was gone, and
about six o’clock Ukridge appeared, so beaming and
effervescent that I understood what had happened before
he spoke. “Corky, my boy,” he said, vehemently, “this
is the maddest, merriest day of all the glad New Year, and
you can quote me as saying so!”</p>
<p>“Lady Lakenheath has given her consent?”</p>
<p>“Not merely given it, but bestowed it blithely,
jubilantly.”</p>
<p>“It beats me,” I said.</p>
<p>“What beats you?” demanded Ukridge, sensitive to
the jarring note.</p>
<p>“Well, I don’t want to cast any aspersions, but I should
have thought the first thing she would have done would be
to make searching enquiries about your financial position.”</p>
<p>“My financial position? What’s wrong with my financial
position? I’ve got considerably over fifty quid in the
bank, and I’m on the eve of making an enormous fortune
out of this Peppo stuff.”</p>
<p>“And that satisfied Lady Lakenheath?” I said, incredulously.</p>
<p>Ukridge hesitated for a moment.</p>
<p>“Well, to be absolutely frank, laddie,” he admitted,
“I have an idea that she rather supposes that in the matter
of financing the venture my aunt will rally round and keep
things going till I am on my feet.”</p>
<p>“Your aunt! But your aunt has finally and definitely
disowned you.”</p>
<p>“Yes. To be perfectly accurate, she has. But the old
lady doesn’t know that. In fact, I rather made a point
of keeping it from her. You see, I found it necessary,
as things turned out, to play my aunt as my ace of
trumps.”</p>
<p>“You told me the parrot was your ace of trumps.”</p>
<p>“I know I did. But these things slip up at the last
moment. She seethed with gratitude about the bird, but
when I seized the opportunity to ask her for her blessing
I was shocked to see that she put her ears back and jibbed.
Got that nasty steely look in her eyes and began to talk
about clandestine meetings and things being kept from her.
It was an occasion for the swiftest thinking, laddie. I
got an inspiration. I played up my aunt. It worked like
magic. It seems the old lady has long been an admirer of
her novels, and has always wanted to meet her. She went
down and out for the full count the moment I introduced
my aunt into the conversation, and I have had no trouble
with her since.”</p>
<p>“Have you thought what is going to happen when they
do meet? I can’t see your aunt delivering a striking
testimonial to your merits.”</p>
<p>“That’s all right. The fact of the matter is, luck has
stood by me in the most amazing way all through. It
happens that my aunt is out of town. She’s down at her
cottage in Sussex finishing a novel, and on Saturday she
sails for America on a lecturing tour.”</p>
<p>“How did you find that out?”</p>
<p>“Another bit of luck. I ran into her new secretary, a
bloke named Wassick, at the Savage smoker last Saturday.
There’s no chance of their meeting. When my aunt’s
finishing a novel, she won’t read letters or telegrams, so
it’s no good the old lady trying to get a communication
through to her. It’s Wednesday now, she sails on Saturday,
she will be away six months—why, damme, by the time
she hears of the thing I shall be an old married man.”</p>
<p>It had been arranged between my employer and myself
during the preliminary negotiations that I should give up
my afternoons to the memoirs and that the most convenient
plan would be for me to present myself at Thurloe Square
daily at three o’clock. I had just settled myself on the
following day in the ground-floor study when the girl Millie
came in, carrying papers.</p>
<p>“My aunt asked me to give you these,” she said. “They
are Uncle Rupert’s letters home for the year 1889.”</p>
<p>I looked at her with interest and something bordering
on awe. This was the girl who had actually committed
herself to the appalling task of going through life as Mrs.
Stanley Featherstonehaugh Ukridge—and, what is more,
seemed to like the prospect. Of such stuff are heroines
made.</p>
<p>“Thank you,” I said, putting the papers on the desk.
“By the way, may I—I hope you will——What I mean
is, Ukridge told me all about it. I hope you will be very
happy.”</p>
<p>Her face fit up. She really was the most delightful girl
to look at I had ever met. I could not blame Ukridge for
falling in love with her.</p>
<p>“Thank you very much,” she said. She sat in the
huge arm-chair, looking very small. “Stanley has been
telling me what friends you and he are. He is devoted to
you.”</p>
<p>“Great chap!” I said, heartily. I would have said
anything which I thought would please her. She exercised
a spell, this girl. “We were at school together.”</p>
<p>“I know. He is always talking about it.” She looked
at me with round eyes exactly like a Persian kitten’s.
“I suppose you will be his best man?” She bubbled
with happy laughter. “At one time I was awfully afraid
there wouldn’t be any need for a best man. Do you think
it was very wrong of us to steal Aunt Elizabeth’s parrot?”</p>
<p>“Wrong?” I said, stoutly. “Not a bit of it. What an
idea!”</p>
<p>“She was terribly worried,” argued the girl.</p>
<p>“Best thing in the world,” I assured her. “Too much
peace of mind leads to premature old age.”</p>
<p>“All the same, I have never felt so wicked and ashamed
of myself. And I know Stanley felt just like that, too.”</p>
<p>“I bet he did!” I agreed, effusively. Such was the
magic of this Dresden china child that even her preposterous
suggestion that Ukridge possessed a conscience could not
shake me.</p>
<p>“He’s so wonderful and chivalrous and considerate.”</p>
<p>“The very words I should have used myself!”</p>
<p>“Why, to show you what a beautiful nature he has, he’s
gone out now with my aunt to help her do her shopping.”</p>
<p>“You don’t say so!”</p>
<p>“Just to try to make it up to her, you see, for the anxiety
we caused her.”</p>
<p>“It’s noble! That’s what it is. Absolutely noble!”</p>
<p>“And if there’s one thing in the world he loathes it is
carrying parcels.”</p>
<p>“The man,” I exclaimed, with fanatical enthusiasm, “is
a perfect Sir Galahad!”</p>
<p>“Isn’t he? Why, only the other day——”</p>
<p>She was interrupted. Outside, the front door slammed.
There came a pounding of large feet in the passage. The
door of the study flew open, and Sir Galahad himself
charged in, his arms full of parcels.</p>
<p>“Corky!” he began. Then, perceiving his future wife,
who had risen from the chair in alarm, he gazed at her with
a wild pity in his eyes, as one who has bad news to spring.
“Millie, old girl,” he said, feverishly, “we’re in the soup!”</p>
<p>The girl clutched the table.</p>
<p>“Oh, Stanley, darling!”</p>
<p>“There is just one hope. It occurred to me as I was——”</p>
<p>“You don’t mean that Aunt Elizabeth has changed her
mind?”</p>
<p>“She hasn’t yet. But,” said Ukridge, grimly, “she’s pretty
soon going to, unless we move with the utmost despatch.”</p>
<p>“But what has happened?”</p>
<p>Ukridge shed the parcels. The action seemed to make
him calmer.</p>
<p>“We had just come out of Harrod’s,” he said, “and I was
about to leg it home with these parcels, when she sprang
it on me! Right out of a blue sky!”</p>
<p>“What, Stanley, dear? Sprang what?”</p>
<p>“This ghastly thing. This frightful news that she proposes
to attend the dinner of the Pen and Ink Club on Friday
night. I saw her talking to a pug-nosed female we met in
the fruit, vegetable, birds, and pet dogs department, but
I never guessed what they were talking about. She was
inviting the old lady to that infernal dinner!”</p>
<p>“But, Stanley, why shouldn’t Aunt Elizabeth go to
the Pen and Ink Club dinner?”</p>
<p>“Because my aunt is coming up to town on Friday
specially to speak at that dinner, and your aunt is going
to make a point of introducing herself and having a long
chat about me.”</p>
<p>We gazed at one another silently. There was no disguising
the gravity of the news. Like the coming together
of two uncongenial chemicals, this meeting of aunt with
aunt must inevitably produce an explosion. And in that
explosion would perish the hopes and dreams of two loving
hearts.</p>
<p>“Oh, Stanley! What can we do?”</p>
<p>If the question had been directed at me, I should have
been hard put to it to answer; but Ukridge, that man of
resource, though he might be down, was never out.</p>
<p>“There is just one scheme. It occurred to me as I was
sprinting along the Brompton Road. Laddie,” he proceeded,
laying a heavy hand on my shoulder, “it involves
your co-operation.”</p>
<p>“Oh, how splendid!” cried Millie.</p>
<p>It was not quite the comment I would have made myself.
She proceeded to explain.</p>
<p>“Mr. Corcoran is so clever. I’m sure, if it’s anything
that can be done, he will do it.”</p>
<p>This ruled me out as a potential resister. Ukridge I might
have been able to withstand, but so potently had this girl’s
spell worked upon me that in her hands I was as wax.</p>
<p>Ukridge sat down on the desk, and spoke with a tenseness
befitting the occasion.</p>
<p>“It’s rummy in this life, laddie,” he began in moralising
vein, “how the rottenest times a fellow goes through may
often do him a bit of good in the end. I don’t suppose I
have ever enjoyed any period of my existence less than those
months I spent at my aunt’s house in Wimbledon. But
mark the sequel, old horse! It was while going through
that ghastly experience that I gained a knowledge of her
habits which is going to save us now. You remember Dora
Mason?”</p>
<p>“Who is Dora Mason?” enquired Millie, quickly.</p>
<p>“A plain, elderly sort of female who used to be my aunt’s
secretary,” replied Ukridge, with equal promptness.</p>
<p>Personally, I remembered Miss Mason as a rather unusually
pretty and attractive girl, but I felt that it would be
injudicious to say so. I contented myself with making a
mental note to the effect that Ukridge, whatever his drawbacks
as a husband, had at any rate that ready tact which
is so helpful in the home.</p>
<p>“Miss Mason,” he proceeded, speaking, I thought, in a
manner a shade more careful and measured, “used to talk
to me about her job from time to time. I was sorry for
the poor old thing, you understand, because hers was a grey
life, and I made rather a point of trying to cheer her up now
and then.”</p>
<p>“How like you, dear!”</p>
<p>It was not I who spoke—it was Millie. She regarded her
betrothed with shining and admiring eyes, and I could see
that she was thinking that my description of him as a
modern Galahad was altogether too tame.</p>
<p>“And one of the things she told me,” continued Ukridge,
“was that my aunt, though she’s always speaking at these
bally dinners, can’t say a word unless she has her speech
written for her and memorises it. Miss Mason swore
solemnly to me that she had written every word my aunt
had spoken in public in the last two years. You begin to
get on to the scheme, laddie? The long and the short of
it is that we must get hold of that speech she’s going to
deliver at the Pen and Ink Club binge. We must intercept
it, old horse, before it can reach her. We shall thus spike
her guns. Collar that speech, Corky, old man, before she
can get her hooks on it, and you can take it from me that
she’ll find she has a headache on Friday night and can’t
appear.”</p>
<p>There stole over me that sickening conviction that comes
to those in peril that I was for it.</p>
<p>“But it may be too late,” I faltered, with a last feeble
effort at self-preservation. “She may have the speech
already.”</p>
<p>“Not a chance. I know what she’s like when she’s
finishing one of these beastly books. No distractions of
any sort are permitted. Wassick, the secretary bloke,
will have had instructions to send the thing to her by
registered post to arrive Friday morning, so that she can
study it in the train. Now, listen carefully, laddie, for I
have thought this thing out to the last detail. My aunt
is at her cottage at Market Deeping, in Sussex. I don’t
know how the trains go, but there’s sure to be one that’ll
get me to Market Deeping to-night. Directly I arrive I
shall send a wire to Wassick—signed ‘Ukridge,’” said the
schemer. “I have a perfect right to sign telegrams
‘Ukridge,’” he added, virtuously, “in which I tell him to
hand the speech over to a gentleman who will call for it,
as arrangements have been made for him to take it down
to the cottage. All you have to do is to call at my aunt’s
house, see Wassick—a splendid fellow, and just the sort
of chump who won’t suspect a thing—get the manuscript,
and biff off. Once round the corner, you dump it in the
nearest garbage-box, and all is well.”</p>
<p>“Isn’t he wonderful, Mr. Corcoran?” cried Millie.</p>
<p>“I can rely on you, Corky? You will not let me down
over your end of the business?”</p>
<p>“You <i>will </i> do this for us, Mr. Corcoran, won’t you?”
pleaded Millie.</p>
<p>I gave one look at her. Her Persian kitten eyes beamed
into mine—gaily, trustfully, confidently. I gulped.</p>
<p>“All right,” I said, huskily.</p>
<p>A leaden premonition of impending doom weighed me
down next morning as I got into the cab which was to take
me to Heath House, Wimbledon Common. I tried to
correct this shuddering panic, by telling myself that it was
simply due to my recollection of what I had suffered at
my previous visit to the place, but it refused to leave me.
A black devil of apprehension sat on my shoulder all the
way, and as I rang the front-door bell it seemed to me that
this imp emitted a chuckle more sinister than any that
had gone before. And suddenly as I waited there I understood.</p>
<p>No wonder the imp had chuckled! Like a flash I perceived
where the fatal flaw in this enterprise lay. It was
just like Ukridge, poor impetuous, woollen-headed ass, not
to have spotted it; but that I myself should have overlooked
it was bitter indeed. The simple fact which had
escaped our joint attention was this—that, as I had visited
the house before, the butler would recognise me. I might
succeed in purloining the speech, but it would be reported
to the Woman Up Top that the mysterious visitor who had
called for the manuscript was none other than the loathly
Mr. Corcoran of hideous memory—and what would happen
then? Prosecution? Jail? Social ruin?</p>
<p>I was on the very point of retreating down the steps when
the door was flung open, and there swept over me the
most exquisite relief I have ever known.</p>
<p>It was a new butler who stood before me.</p>
<p>“Well?”</p>
<p>He did not actually speak the word, but he had a pair
of those expressive, beetling eyebrows, and they said it
for him. A most forbidding man, fully as grim and austere
as his predecessor.</p>
<p>“I wish to see Mr. Wassick,” I said, firmly.</p>
<p>The butler’s manner betrayed no cordiality, but he
evidently saw that I was not to be trifled with. He led the
way down that familiar hall, and presently I was in the
drawing-room, being inspected once more by the six
Pekingese, who, as on that other occasion, left their baskets,
smelt me, registered disappointment, and made for their
baskets again.</p>
<p>“What name shall I say, sir?”</p>
<p>I was not to be had like that.</p>
<p>“Mr. Wassick is expecting me,” I replied, coldly.</p>
<p>“Very good, sir.”</p>
<p>I strolled buoyantly about the room, inspecting this object
and that. I hummed lightly. I spoke kindly to the Pekes.</p>
<p>“Hallo, you Pekes!” I said.</p>
<p>I sauntered over to the mantelpiece, over which was a
mirror. I was gazing at myself and thinking that it was
not such a bad sort of face—not handsome, perhaps, but
with a sort of something about it—when of a sudden the
mirror reflected something else.</p>
<p>That something was the figure of that popular novelist
and well-known after-dinner speaker, Miss Julia Ukridge.
“Good-morning,” she said.</p>
<p>It is curious how often the gods who make sport of us
poor humans defeat their own ends by overdoing the
thing. Any contretemps less awful than this, however
slightly less awful, would undoubtedly have left me as
limp as a sheet of carbon paper, rattled and stammering,
in prime condition to be made sport of. But as it was I
found myself strangely cool. I had a subconscious feeling
that there would be a reaction later, and that the next time
I looked in a mirror I should find my hair strangely whitened,
but for the moment I was unnaturally composed, and my
brain buzzed like a circular-saw in an ice-box.</p>
<p>“How do you do?” I heard myself say. My voice
seemed to come from a long distance, but it was steady
and even pleasing in timbre.</p>
<p>“You wished to see me, Mr. Corcoran?”</p>
<p>“Yes.”</p>
<p>“Then why,” enquired Miss Ukridge, softly, “did you
ask for my secretary?”</p>
<p>There was that same acid sub-tinkle in her voice which
had been there at our previous battle in the same ring.
But that odd alertness stood by me well.</p>
<p>“I understood that you were out of town,” I said.</p>
<p>“Who told you that?”</p>
<p>“They were saying so at the Savage Club the other
night.” This seemed to hold her.</p>
<p>“Why did you wish to see me?” she asked, baffled by
my ready intelligence.</p>
<p>“I hoped to get a few facts concerning your proposed
lecture tour in America.”</p>
<p>“How did you know that I was about to lecture in
America?” I raised my eyebrows. This was childish.</p>
<p>“They were saying so at the Savage Club,” I replied.
Baffled again.</p>
<p>“I had an idea, Mr. Corcoran,” she said, with a nasty
gleam in her blue eyes, “that you might be the person
alluded to in my nephew Stanley’s telegram.”</p>
<p>“Telegram?”</p>
<p>“Yes. I altered my plans and returned to London last
night instead of waiting till this evening, and I had scarcely
arrived when a telegram came, signed Ukridge, from the
village where I had been staying. It instructed my
secretary to hand over to a gentleman who would call this
morning the draft of the speech which I am to deliver at
the dinner of the Pen and Ink Club. I assume the
thing to have been some obscure practical joke on
the part of my nephew, Stanley. And I also assumed,
Mr. Corcoran, that you must be the gentleman alluded
to.”</p>
<p>I could parry this sort of stuff all day.</p>
<p>“What an odd idea!” I said.</p>
<p>“You think it odd? Then why did you tell my butler
that my secretary was expecting you?”</p>
<p>It was the worst one yet, but I blocked it.</p>
<p>“The man must have misunderstood me. He seemed,”
I added, loftily, “an unintelligent sort of fellow.”</p>
<p>Our eyes met in silent conflict for a brief instant, but
all was well. Julia Ukridge was a civilised woman, and
this handicapped her in the contest. For people may say
what they like about the artificialities of modern civilisation
and hold its hypocrisies up to scorn, but there is no denying
that it has one outstanding merit. Whatever its defects,
civilisation prevents a gently-bred lady of high standing
in the literary world from calling a man a liar and punching
him on the nose, however convinced she may be that he
deserves it. Miss Ukridge’s hands twitched, her lips
tightened, and her eyes gleamed bluely—but she restrained
herself. She shrugged her shoulders.</p>
<p>“What do you wish to know about my lecture tour?”
she said.</p>
<p>It was the white flag.</p>
<p>Ukridge and I had arranged to dine together at the
Regent Grill Room that night and celebrate the happy
ending of his troubles. I was first at the tryst, and my
heart bled for my poor friend as I noted the care-free way
in which he ambled up the aisle to our table. I broke the
bad news as gently as I could, and the man sagged like a
filleted fish. It was not a cheery meal. I extended myself
as host, plying him with rich foods and spirited young
wines, but he would not be comforted. The only remark
he contributed to the conversation, outside of scattered
monosyllables, occurred as the waiter retired with the
cigar-box.</p>
<p>“What’s the time, Corky, old man?”</p>
<p>I looked at my watch.</p>
<p>“Just on half-past nine.”</p>
<p>“About now,” said Ukridge, dully, “my aunt is starting
to give the old lady an earful!”</p>
<p>Lady Lakenheath was never, even at the best of times,
what I should call a sparkling woman, but it seemed to
me, as I sat with her at tea on the following afternoon,
that her manner was more sombre than usual. She had all
the earmarks of a woman who has had disturbing news.
She looked, in fact, exactly like a woman who has been
told by the aunt of the man who is endeavouring to marry
into her respectable family the true character of that
individual.</p>
<p>It was not easy in the circumstances to keep the ball
rolling on the subject of the ’Mgomo-’Mgomos, but I was
struggling bravely, when the last thing happened which I
should have predicted.</p>
<p>“Mr. Ukridge,” announced the maid.</p>
<p>That Ukridge should be here at all was astounding; but
that he should bustle in, as he did, with that same air of
being the household pet which had marked his demeanour
at our first meeting in this drawing-room, soared into the
very empyrean of the inexplicable. So acutely was I
affected by the spectacle of this man, whom I had left
on the previous night a broken hulk, behaving with the
ebullience of an honoured member of the family, that I did
what I had been on the verge of doing every time I had
partaken of Lady Lakenheath’s hospitality—upset my tea.</p>
<p>“I wonder,” said Ukridge, plunging into speech with the
same old breezy abruptness, “if this stuff would be any
good, Aunt Elizabeth.”</p>
<p>I had got my cup balanced again as he started speaking,
but at the sound of this affectionate address over it went
again. Only a juggler of long experience could have
manipulated Lady Lakenheath’s miniature cups and
saucers successfuly under the stress of emotions such as I
was experiencing.</p>
<p>“What is it, Stanley?” asked Lady Lakenheath, with
a flicker of interest.</p>
<p>They were bending their heads over a bottle which
Ukridge had pulled out of his pocket.</p>
<p>“It’s some new stuff, Aunt Elizabeth, Just put on the
market. Said to be excellent for parrots, Might be worth
trying.”</p>
<p>“It is exceedingly thoughtful of you, Stanley, to have
brought it,” said Lady Lakenheath, warmly. “And I
shall certainly try the effect of a dose if Leonard has another
seizure. Fortunately, he seems almost himself again this
afternoon.”</p>
<p>“Splendid!”</p>
<p>“My parrot,” said Lady Lakenheath, including me in
the conversation, “had a most peculiar attack last night.
I cannot account for it. His health has always been so
particularly good. I was dressing for dinner at the time,
and so was not present at the outset of the seizure, but
my niece, who was an eye-witness of what occurred, tells
me he behaved in a most unusual way. Quite suddenly,
it appears, he started to sing very excitedly; then, after
awhile, he stopped in the middle of a bar and appeared
to be suffering. My niece, who is a most warm-hearted
girl, was naturally exceedingly alarmed. She ran to fetch
me, and when I came down poor Leonard was leaning
against the side of his cage in an attitude of complete
exhaustion, and all he would say was, ‘Have a nut!’ He
repeated this several times in a low voice, and then closed
his eyes and tumbled off his perch. I was up half the
night with him, but now he seems mercifully to have turned
the corner. This afternoon he is almost his old bright self
again, and has been talking in Swahili, always a sign that
he is feeling cheerful.”</p>
<p>I murmured my condolences and congratulations.</p>
<p>“It was particularly unfortunate,” observed Ukridge,
sympathetically, “that the thing should have happened
last night, because it prevented Aunt Elizabeth going to
the Pen and Ink Club dinner.”</p>
<p>“What!” Fortunately I had set down my cup by this
time.</p>
<p>“Yes,” said Lady Lakenheath, regretfully. “And I
had been so looking forward to meeting Stanley’s aunt
there. Miss Julia Ukridge, the novelist. I have been an
admirer of hers for many years. But, with Leonard in this
terrible state, naturally I could not stir from the house.
His claims were paramount. I shall have to wait till
Miss Ukridge returns from America.”</p>
<p>“Next April,” murmured Ukridge, softly.</p>
<p>“I think, if you will excuse me now, Mr. Corcoran, I
will just run up and see how Leonard is.”</p>
<p>The door closed.</p>
<p>“Laddie,” said Ukridge, solemnly, “doesn’t this just
show——”</p>
<p>I gazed at him accusingly.</p>
<p>“Did you poison that parrot?”</p>
<p>“Me? Poison the parrot? Of course I didn’t poison
the parrot. The whole thing was due to an act of mistaken
kindness carried out in a spirit of the purest altruism. And,
as I was saying, doesn’t it just show that no little act of
kindness, however trivial, is ever wasted in the great
scheme of things? One might have supposed that when
I brought the old lady that bottle of Peppo the thing would
have begun and ended there with a few conventional words
of thanks. But mark, laddie, how all things work together
for good. Millie, who, between ourselves, is absolutely a
girl in a million, happened to think the bird was looking a
bit off colour last night, and with a kindly anxiety to do
him a bit of good, gave him a slice of bread soaked in Peppo.
Thought it might brace him up. Now, what they put in
that stuff, old man, I don’t know, but the fact remains that
the bird almost instantly became perfectly pie-eyed. You
have heard the old lady’s account of the affair, but, believe
me, she doesn’t know one half of it. Millie informs me that
Leonard’s behaviour had to be seen to be believed. When
the old lady came down he was practically in a drunken
stupor, and all to-day he has been suffering from a shocking
head. If he’s really sitting up and taking notice again, it
simply means that he has worked off one of the finest hangovers
of the age. Let this be a lesson to you, laddie, never
to let a day go by without its act of kindness. What’s the
time, old horse?”</p>
<p>“Getting on for five.”</p>
<p>Ukridge seemed to muse for a moment, and a happy smile
irradiated his face.</p>
<p>“About now,” he said, complacently, “my aunt is out
in the Channel somewhere. And I see by the morning
paper that there is a nasty gale blowing up from the southeast!”</p>